our second reading comes from Hebrews
chapter 11 verses 29 through 12 verses 1
and 2 by faith the people passed through
the Red Sea as if it were on dry land
but when the Egyptians attempted to do
so they were drowned by faith the walls
of Jericho fell after they had been
encircled for seven days by faith Rahab
the prostitute did not perish with those
who were disobedient because she had
received the spies in peace and what
more should I say for time would fail me
to tell of gideon barak of samson of
jephta of David and of Samuel and of all
the prophets who through faith conquered
kingdoms administered justice obtained
promises shut the mouths of lions
quenched raging fires escaped the edge
of the sword one strength out of wait
weakness became mighty and war put
foreign armies to flight women receive
their dead by resurrection others were
tortured refusing to accept release in
order to obtain a better resurrection
others suffered mockings and floggings
and even chains and imprisonment they
were stoned to death they were sawn into
two they were killed by the sword they
went about and skins of sheeps and goats
destitute persecuted tormented of whom
the world was not worthy they wandered
in the desert and mount
and in caves and holes in the ground yet
all these though they were commended for
their faith did not receive what was
promised since God had provided
something better so that they would not
be apart from us he made perfect
therefore since we are surrounded by a
great cloud of witnesses let us also lay
aside every weight and descend that
cling so closely and let us run with
perseverance the race that is set before
us looking to Jesus the Pioneer and
perfecter of our faith who for the sake
of joy that was set before him endured
the cross disregarding its shame and has
taken his seat at the right hand of the
throne of God may the the Lord add a
rich blessing to the reading the hearing
of God's Holy Word may it sink deep down
and bring forth much fruit the Word of
God for the people of God I woke up with
this song and you guys all know it I'm
gonna ask Sarah to play it for us and
we're just gonna sing it says short song
[Music]
sweets vivid in this play and I know
that it's the spirit
there are sweet expressions on each face
and I know that it's the present
[Music]
sweet heaven leader stay right here with
us
filling us with your love and for these
pussies we lift our hearts and praise
without a doubt we'll know that we have
been revived when we shall leave this
land the church say Amen I came across
this story and it was of this woman Mary
Marie she asks the new pastor James led
Njord to come to a home and to pray for
her father her father Bob when the
minister arrived he found Bob lying in
the bed his head propped up with two
pillows and an empty chair in the road
and he says well sir you were expecting
me I didn't know that you were expecting
me and Bob says sir I don't know who you
are no I was not expecting you he says
well I'm the new pastor at your church
when I saw the empty chair I just
assumed that you were expecting me he
said oh the empty chair let me tell you
about that would you close the door
pastor and so Pastor James went to close
the door he was somewhat puzzled he says
well I never got this prayer thing down
and I've heard many sermons on prayer
but every time I heard it it seemed to
go right over my head I just couldn't
get it but about four years ago my best
friend I was telling them how I
struggled with this whole notion of
prayer
and he said I want you to try this he
said when you go home I want you to sit
in their chair but I want you to place
an empty chair right in front of you and
I want you to envision God sitting in
that chair eagerly waiting to listen to
you and then I want you to talk to him
just like you talked to me
remember the scripture says we have not
because we ask not remember the
scripture says cast all of your cares
upon him because he cares for us he's
waiting to listen to you so Bob told the
pastor so I tried it I said in the chair
and I envisioned Jesus sitting in the
empty chair and and I began to talk to
him and I began to delight in it and so
I do it a couple of times a day it feels
good to me
but I keep it to myself because of my
daughter saw me talking to an empty
chair she might put me in a loony farm
so I keep it to myself
and pastor James was somewhat impressed
with Bob but he anointed Bob and he
prayed over him and he headed back to
his office three days later Bob died his
daughter called the pastor and she says
today at 2 o'clock daddy died before
that he called me to the room and he
told me how much he loved me and I told
him how much I loved him and we kissed
each other
and I went to the store but when I came
back I found that Daddy had died the
pastor said did he die in peace he said
yes he died in peace but there was
something strange he said oh she said
daddy somehow got himself out of the bed
and leaned over
and he died with his head on that empty
chair in the room Pastor James begin to
cry and she says pastor what do you make
of that and he said we should all die
like that we should all die in faith
having faith without sight do you have
faith this morning
and are you living by faith and not by
sight I'm talking about faith this
morning the hallmark of a hero is
bravery integrity selflessness heroes
saved the day they take risks they asked
for nothing in return as they ride off
into the sunset the Bible also tells us
about biblical heroes they're not always
brave not always good or even selfless
in many ways they are people just like
you and me who can sometimes miss the
mark and sometimes drop the ball but
what is what is it that we have in
common with Abraham and Sarah and Moses
what is it that we have in common with
them that we should even tell their
stories today what makes them heroes
through faith Abraham became the father
of many nations through faith
Sara became a mother in her old age
through faith Moses became an agent of
delivery of his people in bondage they
were all connected by the great faith
that eats one possess the faith in
Yahweh the God who lives talking about
faith this morning Hebrews 11 has a long
list of great men and women of the faith
and what can we learn from them on our
own journey of faith I hope we learn
something this morning there are many
people who live with a sense of
hopelessness in a sense faith is not
working for them
this faith thing is no longer worth
while there are many people who are not
coming to church because they don't
trust God anymore they don't trust the
church some have given up some are tired
and have decided to throw in the towel
on this thing called faith in church
that's why it's hard time to pray amen I
don't know about you but I call it
despair have you ever been there some
people are living with despair they
don't know whether to trust the church
they don't know where what to believe in
and that's where they are somebody say
it's hard time to pray
but when we look at this text this
morning that's that is exactly what was
happening to the Hebrew people they
become weary with this whole talk about
faith with this whole idea of being a
new church and the author is saying
don't give up don't quit don't you throw
in the towel but hang in there the
author is saying you may want to go back
to your old ways but be careful let's
not do that as I was reading this text
sometimes in order to understand the
text that we're reading we might have to
go back a chapter or two and order for
it to make sense how many of you with me
this morning we're going to go back to
Hebrews chapter 10 verses 35 to 39
because this explains this discussion
that we're in today listen to the word
so do not throw away your confidence it
will be richly rewarded you need to
persevere so that when you have done the
will of God you will receive what he has
promised for in just a little while he
who is coming will come and will not
delay but my righteous ones will live by
faith and I take no pleasure in the one
who shrinks back but we do not belong to
those who shrink back and are destroyed
but to those who have faith they're
saved
in other words I'm writing to you this
is what the that the Hebrew writer is
saying in other words I'm writing to you
so that you will have confidence in the
faith that I've shared with you I'm
writing to you so that you will endure
and during the will of God I'm writing
to you so that you will not shrink back
but stand up in these troubling times I
love the next phrase you are the
righteous ones who are to live by faith
living by faith is not an event it's a
lifestyle living by faith is not just
what we did when we turned our lives
over the god when we got saved would
ever Lane what you want to do but it's
who we are as the body of Christ we live
by faith how many of you with me this
morning and this is what the Hebrew
writer is saying we who are the body of
Christ that's our identity is that we
are the ones who live by faith and when
we live by faith we can experience God
in action how many of you know that God
does not drive parked cars that's kind
of like getting into a plane you you're
excited to be in the cockpit and they
turn the plane on and it's revving up
and you hear that sound you get excited
and you don't even move forward you just
turn the engine back off are we living
by faith this morning it raises a few
questions what is faith and and how does
it work well Hebrews 1 is talking about
faith in action
now faith is the substance of things
hoped for
the evidence of things not seen
faith is the substance of things hoped
for the evidence of things not seen so
let me be clear let me tell you what
faith is not faith is not a feeling
hello
when I was 10 years old I was smelling
myself I walked into my mother's bedroom
now it was far enough so she couldn't
swing on me but I said mama I don't feel
like going to church and I said it in
fatica ly and my mother turned around
and she said son it's alright for you to
not feel like going to church but you go
into church and when I was about 11 or
12 I came up with a new scheme Oh mom
I'm not feeling I says I just feel so
sick I don't know that I can go to
church she said you got it you got a
headache you feel hot I said yeah I
think I'm gonna go lay back no no no no
son you can't lay back now get dressed
we'll just go to church and have the
pastor pray for you there was no getting
out of going to church but faith is not
a feeling are you with me that's why
we're in the situation today is because
sometimes faith can move us to make some
poor decisions that's why we have church
hoppers because they don't see anything
happening and then by faith they're not
trusting God they're trusting and what
they see and they said you know what let
me go on over here and the same problems
you just left they're over here hello we
need to have our feet planted amen we
need to bloom where we're planted are
you with me we need to trust in this God
that he can do it and there's to be any
increase God is going to do it are you
with me but the question is do we trust
not to work alongside of this God faith
things hope for evidence of things not
seen
faith is not a feeling
you can feel faithless but be full of
faith you can feel full of faith and
have no faith because faith is not a
feeling faith is the substance of things
hoped for the evidence of things not
seen now this is God's way this has been
the strategy from the very beginning if
you go back to the book of Genesis you
will find that he created out of nothing
and all of a sudden we saw it substance
of things hoped for the evidence of
things not seen
faith is not one of the things you need
it is the key ingredient in order to
experience God in action do you have
faith this morning I heard Hebrews 11
verse 1 put in layman's terms let me
share with you
faith is acting like it is so even when
it is not so in order that it might be
so merely because God said so maybe you
in the back didn't hear me let me say it
again
faith is acting like it is so even when
it is not so and all of that it might be
so merely because God said so faith
it's the substance of things hoped for
the evidence of things not seen do we
have faith in God this morning let me go
back to the scripture Hebrews 11 verses
29 to 31 by faith they passed through
the Red Sea on dry land
when the Egyptian tried they drowned by
faith the walls of Jericho came down
after they had been encircled for seven
days by faith Rahab the prostitute did
in Paris with those who were disobedient
because she received those in peace do
you have faith this morning are you
trusting God with everything this is
what this
she says by faith we understand that the
universe was formed at God's command so
that what is seen was not made out of
what was visible by faith we understand
that the entire universe was formed at
God's command there's a story of a
little girl and she's on the sewing
machine and she's happy and she's making
something and she said mom my creation
is almost done I'm almost finished with
my creation I want you to see it
her mother smiled and says I'm eager to
see it
you've been certainly working hard on it
Oh mom you're going to like my creation
she came into the room and she unfolded
the material and it was an apron that
she had made for her father for when he
barbecues her mother said your father's
going to love it
twelve-year-old Cathy says some creation
huh her mother says why do you keep
saying creation I know what you mean
however the definition of create is to
cause something to exist in other words
to take something out of nothing that's
not what you've did dear I like to
remember it this way because it reminds
me of the awesomeness of God sweetheart
only God can create in that sense mama
hadn't thought about it that way so
maybe I'm not a creator but I'm a good
fashion designer amen
God is the ultimate creator and
the beginning of this chapter we find
that faith has to do with our hopes
faith has to do with our spiritual
realities beyond what we can see faith
has to do with the building of a life
that pleases God faith has to do with
trusting God who can speak the universe
into being Hebrews 11 verse 6 says that
without faith it's impossible to please
them let me go back the people of God
walked by faith the
full of God walk by faith are you
walking by faith don't answer that
question it's rhetorical are we walking
by faith let me go back to the scripture
Hebrews chapter 11 verses 32 what more
shall I say for this time would fail me
if I told of gideon barak of samson
objector of david of samuel and all the
prophets who through faith they subdued
kingdoms worked out righteousness
obtained promises they stopped the
mouths of lions quenched the power of
fire escaped the edge of the sword from
weaknesses were made strong through
mighty and war and caused foreign armies
to flee women received their dead by
resurrection others were tortured not
accepting their deliverance that they
might obtain a better resurrection
others were tried by mocking scourging
yes moreover by chains and imprisonment
some was stoned some were sawed into two
some were tempted they were slain in
other words
Christian life is not easy but they
continued to trust God you see faith it
trust and believe think of the life of
Noah heard God told him to build ark he
build it and because he trusts in God
his faith his family were saved faith
trust in obeys why trust because God is
faithful when we have a lack of faith we
have a lack of trust faith is a way of
saying what I believe your word I
believe that your word is true for my
life and I trust it it's not just saying
it with our mouths are saying it with
our actions the way that we live our
lives it's not just this one hour on
Sunday that God wants to redeem but we
know that he wants to redeem every
aspect of our lives the question is do
we trust him and that's what the writer
of Hebrews is saying don't give up don't
throw in the towel hang in there let's
go back and let's look at the Old
Testament and they can be our witnesses
for us to see how God used Moses how he
used Sarah how he used Abraham how he
used Joseph that same God as the God
who's there for us don't abandon the
faith without faith it's impossible
to please God do you trust him this
morning with your whole life with every
aspect of your life I'm gonna close with
this some of you heard me tell this
story when Joshua was five months old
his heart was double the size we didn't
know that we had taken him to his
primary doctor and the guy just kind of
blew us off he said ah it's just a cold
take this medicine this kid will be fine
and I saw my son grimace and I said
Natalya we got to go to the emergency
room we went from the doctor's office to
the emergency room and when we got there
they shut doc I mean Joshua's breathing
down they put him on a ventilator and
flew him to UVA by the helicopter called
Pegasus Natalya slid down the wall and
my friends we were numb we've got this
five-year-old he's really sick we don't
know how sick he is but let me tell you
about the people of faith they prayed
with us when it was difficult to pray I
had pastors praying for me when I had no
words every two days this big bag would
show up and it would have fruit and
sandwiches and notebook paper and stamps
and all sorts of things that we would
need
they took our vehicles and fixed our
vehicles they sent no cards of people
praying for us some of the car
would have money in it so that we could
go to lunch the church paid for our
hotel hotel stayed for two weeks when I
go to the hospital today that's the
least I can do when I think about what's
been done for me that's the least that I
can do because when I go I can act as
the face of God somehow I say to God
Lord give me a word
so that your people can hold on to the
faith and sometimes I say to people when
I go to the hospital I don't know where
God's gonna do but I trust that he's
here I trust that he's present and he's
going to do something I stand with you
this week my son will be celebrating his
15th birthday God is an amazing God do
you have faith in this God not only in
the good times but even in the times
when you don't understand something
going on and your life do you trust him
or will you church hop and go to the
next church and see what's going on over
there plant your feet plant your feet of
faith and bloom where God has placed you
amen
trust him it makes all the difference
faith
the substance of things hoped for the
evidence of things not seen
gene I want you to come on up here and I
want you to close my sermon out with
prayer you come to the piano we're gonna
sing that verse again
[Music]
spirit in this plane and I know that
it's the spirit of the law there are
sweet expressions on each face and I
know that it's the presence of the Lord
sweet holy spirit sweet heavenly dough
stay right here with us
filling us with your love and for these
blessings we lift our hearts and praise
without a doubt we'll know that we have
been revived when we shall leave this
place
my father God our holy God the God of
Ruth bayit Boaz boys his mother Rahab
Obed Jesse David dear God your
faithfulness through the years is still
your faithfulness now thank you for
letting us lean on you pray to you wait
for you not go before you lord thank you
for your love your goodness thank you
for faith for trust in you thank you for
the words pastor has spoken Lord that
have touched our hearts we thank you for
Joshua what a gift you've given to us
thank you for this day help us to go
forward and glean in your field lord
help us to be good to the leftover
people that's us we're not the rich
we're not the high and mighty we are
those that you reach down and love we
thank you for guiding us thank you for
this day thank you for the hope and the
joy and thank you for faith dear God
thank you for faith and trust
than you and Jesus precious name we pray
amen and now let us pray that prayer
that Jesus taught his disciples our
Father who are in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom and the power and
the glory for ever and ever
[Applause]
good morning
the second reading is from acts 11
verses 1 through 18 Peters report to the
church at Jerusalem
now the Apostles and the believers who
were in Judea heard that the Gentiles
had also accepted the Word of God so
when Peter went out to Jerusalem the
circumcised believers criticized him
saying why did you go to uncircumcised
men and eat with them then Peter began
to explain it to them step by step
saying I was in the city of Joppa
praying and in a trance I saw a vision
there was something like a large sheet
coming down from heaven being lowered by
its four corners and it came close to me
as I looked at it closely
I saw four-footed animals beasts of prey
reptiles and birds of the air I also
heard a voice saying to me get up Peter
kill and eat but I replied by no means
Lord for nothing profane or unclean has
ever entered my mouth but a second time
the voice answered from heaven what God
has made clean you must not call growth
Ain this happened three times then
everything was pulled up again to heaven
at that very moment three men sent to me
from Caesarea arrived at the house where
we were the spirit told me to go with
them and not to make a distinction
between them and us these six brothers
also accompanied me and we entered the
man's house he told us how he had seen
the angel standing in his house and
saying send to Joppa and brings Simon
who is called Peter he will give you a
message by which you and your entire
household will be saved and as I began
to speak the Holy Spirit fell upon them
it had upon us at the beginning and I
remembered the word of the Lord how he
had said John baptized with water but
you will be baptized with the Holy
Spirit if then God gave them the same
gift that he gave us when we believed in
the Lord Jesus Christ who was I that I
could hinder God
when they heard this they were silenced
and they praised God saying then God has
given even to the Gentiles their
repentance that leads to life this is
the Word of God for the people of God
let us pray most gracious God I am
grateful for the gift of salvation but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
I have to do is pray and you say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
Reverend David dykes shares the story of
four golfers who had a change of heart
they were out playing on a plush golf
course and when everything was over they
were in the car and talking and laughing
and they noticed smoke so they followed
it and when they got there it was a
house that had burned down and it was
smoldering a woman was standing there
with her child just looking lost
these men were Christians they got out
of the car and asked if there was
anything that they could do and she said
no one is hurt but I've lost everything
so they went into their pockets and
pulled out a few dollars and gave it to
her got back into their vehicle and
drove in silence after going a number of
miles the driver pulled over and he said
guys I've had a change of heart he said
we didn't give that woman what we could
have given her he took off his golf hat
and he says but I want you to have a
change of heart too
I want you to give me all that you have
and I want to take it back to that lady
in need and so they began going through
their wallets and putting this money
into the Hat and one guy wrote a check
and it totaled the total was over $1,000
that they had raised just in those few
minutes in the car and they went back
and there was the woman still standing
there
looking at the house the ashes of the
house so the driver went over to the
lady and he says ma'am we was just here
a few minutes ago but I'm gonna ask you
to do something that's gonna sound crazy
but I need you to trust me would you
give me back the few dollars that we
gave you because we made a mistake and
she said you made a mistake he said yes
would you give me back the few dollars
that we gave you
and so she
look out the money but when she wanted
to hand it back to him he gave her the
golf hat with all the other money and he
put it together and he said to her now
we've had a change apart we've done
right by you but we want you to know
that we're going to come back and bless
you again what's beautiful about this
story is having a change of heart have
you ever had a change of heart when I
began to prepare this message
I was talking to Isaac and I asked Isaac
if he ever had a change of heart
and he says Derek am i coming here I had
a change of heart he says my full-time
job was selling office equipment to
churches and I like doing that because I
felt like the job gave me flexibility so
that I can still serve God
Isaac was considered a local pastor
which means the United Methodist Church
recognized him as a pastor and gave him
opportunities to preach and to do the
very things that we are talking about
but he was doing it on a part-time basis
and he had a change of heart he wanted
to flip the script if you will he wanted
to work for God full-time and if he made
something on the side then he would do
that but he wanted to serve God
full-time and three times he asks to
serve here at Providence and twice I
send him back and said you go back and
you pray with your wife we don't have
any money but if you and your wife or an
agreement then you can come and you can
serve here
was his change of heart to come to
Providence and to servant he served us
faithfully for a year and a half and so
hopefully you'll have an opportunity to
share with him what that meant to you
have you ever had a change of heart when
we look at this scripture I thought
about the fact that change is just hard
for many of us we like things that are
familiar we like the way it was the way
it is and sometimes we're not as open to
change as we should be even when God is
orchestrating the change we want it to
remain the same when Peter was sent to
the home of Cornelius God was trying to
change Peters heart and he was also
trying to change the church's
perspective towards the Gentiles Peter
had some of his own prejudices against
the Gentiles that probably needed to
change perhaps we all have our own
biases and prejudices if we're honest
about it and maybe today might be a good
opportunity to change the way we think
to invite God in to help us with that
old traditions and old habits that seem
hard to break old mindsets and biases
and prejudices are hard to break but
today as we turn our attention to the
life of Peter we come to one of the most
difficult challenges that Peter had to
face in his life and in his ministry
and as you will see God was
orchestrating an amazing turn events
that was intended to signal that this
would be a big change in the life of the
church but imagine with me if you will
your life has been from the very
beginning that you were taught by your
parents by your grandparents or
great-grandparents your religious
teachers Sunday school teachers and just
teachers in general in your community
everyone you know and you love has
taught you that there are foods that you
shouldn't eat some are not kosher they
are not every human being outside of the
group
the Jews were told that they were bad
and they are not part of God's group the
Jews understood that there's no hope for
them no salvation for them they are
dirty and they're unclean this was
ingrained in his thinking this was
ingrained in Jewish thinking so this
whole idea of intermingling with other
people outside of your group to the
Jewish people
that was like sinning and so as we look
at this text today we find that God is
about to do a new thing he's going to
turn
Peters thinking upside down he's going
to turn the church's thinking upside
down
so again when Peter was sent to the home
of Cornelius God was trying to change
Peters heart and the church's
perspective towards the Gentiles and
he's going to do that by telling them
that the Gentiles are in and no longer
out Peter had some of his own prejudices
against and biases against the Gentiles
and some of those things needed to
change
have you ever a change of heart let me
tell you how this story went but we have
to take a look at the book of Acts 10
the chapter just before the chapter that
was read in your hearing in chapter 10
the story goes that there was a man
named Cornelius he was a Roman army
soldier no less had a strange vision but
before this we what we know about
Cornelius is that he's the captain of an
Italian Guard stationed there
and yet he let his entire family to
worship God I love this because he
wasn't ashamed of it
obviously he thought it was good to lead
his whole family to worship God he was
noted in the community for the things
that he did taking care of people making
sure that people's needs were
Mette being a good neighbor and was also
said that he had a good habit of prayer
his prayer life was essential to him but
one day about 3 o'clock in the afternoon
he had a vision an angel of God stood
before him and called out to him by main
Cornelius I imagine that he didn't know
what to do he didn't know whether to to
listen or to run but I imagined that he
was staring at the angel trying to see
if this is truly real but he says what
do you want of me sir and the angel says
you've got God's attention God has
noticed what you have done for others
God has noticed that you have met the
needs of other he's notices your prayer
life and God wants you to send men to
Jerusalem and find Peter and bring him
back here because he's got a message for
you what I love about this story what's
so tender about this story is that the
angel called him by name how many of you
know that God knows your name before any
of us were born in our mother's womb God
knew us that's fascinating to me that
this God knows exactly who we are and he
knows us
by name when Natalia was pregnant with
Joshua I woke up that morning and I said
sweetheart I had a dream that we should
name our son Joshua she said really I
had a dream too my mother called around
I had a dream that you are to name your
son Joshua and we had a little
conversation my sister called and said I
had a dream I said don't tell me that
we're supposed to name our son Joshua
don't tell me that God didn't name my
son Joshua only God can do that
any calls Cornelius by name when I read
the scripture I'm always looking for a
love note and if that's not a love note
I don't know what is but Cornelius was
faithful he was trying to live the best
life that he knew how and serving Jesus
of the Living God
on the flip side of this is that Peter
went to the roof to pray and it was at
the same time that Cornelius had this
vision and Peter was in sort of like a
trance and God showed him that there was
like a sheet coming down and it was
lowered and he saw all these different
four-legged animals and birds and
reptiles and God says Peter kill and eat
Peter said all know I've never put
anything that's not kosher I'm not gonna
do that
and God said Peter don't say it's bad if
I called it good it's okay now let me
tell you a little something about Peter
he's a little stubborn because scripture
says God had to do this three times
could you imagine Peter's like no Lord I
wasn't raised like that
what do you mean Lord I can't do this
this is wrong the spirit had to show
Peter three times four Peter would get
this into a spirit I wonder if God were
to come and speak to us today would he
have to keep on revealing himself to you
and I or would we just be so happy that
God showed up and revealed himself that
we would say yes to whatever it is but
we're just like Peter come on you know
we say things like God wherever you send
me I'll go and then God says I want you
to go there as a twirl or not there god
I mean anywhere but there well god I
anything that you want me to do God I
will do it we say that prayer and then
God says I want you to serve on this
committee whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa wait
a minute Lord come on I mean God not
that committee that's a lot of work if I
to get on that committee we're no
different than Peter trying to figure it
all out but what I love about this story
is that sometimes the Spirit has to take
over and then when the Spirit takes over
the theologians calls it an ontological
experience notice in the text that it
says that Peters trying to make
sense of all of this that has happened
and it's still puzzling to him the three
men come from Joppa to see him and
they're asking for Peter he heard his
name but he's still like trying to make
sense of this and notice what the
scripture says it says the spirit said
this he whispered to Peter hey go
downstairs there's three men looking for
you I've sent them go with them and by
the way don't ask any questions that
would have killed me right there don't
ask any questions
three men show up at your house just go
with them
somebody said but God said I sent them
so Peter invites them in and the next
morning they go and they leave and when
he gets to Cornelius house I could
imagine that Cornelius is just beside
himself he had this ontological
experience with God he saw the angel he
knows that God is real that God is alive
and his servant Peter it's coming
scripture says that when he saw Peter he
brought his family out and he he greeted
him but he got down to worship Peter and
Peter said no no no none of that I'm a
man just like you don't worship Me
worship Him and Peter says God revealed
some things to me and I want to share
them with you
if you're open to receiving God
then God is open to receiving you but
why have you invited me here no this is
what I love about the facts
it says Cornelius says the spirit is
here and we're ready to listen to what
the master has to say through you what
if we as the body of Christ came to
church with that same spirit that we
came to hear what God has to say that we
came to hear what God might have to say
through me or whoever is preaching but
we came with the sense of expectancy not
just to punch our clock not just to call
our friends and say I've been the church
but we came with the sense that God can
do anything but fail that there's no
failure in God that whatever we're going
through that God cares that God's got a
word for me what if we had Cornelius
spirit where might we be some of us do
have it but maybe some of us need to
catch Cornelius's spirit so Peter began
to preach to them and the spirit fell on
all who will worship in God but let me
just say this to you even when you're
doing the right thing there's always
somebody who's out there ready to oppose
you hello even church folk sometimes
church folks will oppose you amen
oh my
so Peter is heading back to Jerusalem
and word word-of-mouth got there before
Peter got there and the elders are like
he did what he ate with the Jews I mean
he ate with the Gentiles and he was in
their house and he reclined with them
are you serious
could you imagine and so when Peter got
into town I imagine that the head one
the head elder you know did would what
our mothers do come in come in you come
in here let's sit down and let's talk we
gotta talk you don't have that come to
Jesus meeting now I heard that you was
at the Gentiles house eatin Gentile food
and reclining with the Gentiles tell me
it ain't so Peter and I love what the
scripture says Peter says all right I
gotta tell you step-by-step how this
whole thing happened I had a vision this
is what God showed me these folks showed
up just like God told me they would I
went to this man's house and they
received the Holy Spirit just like we
did when the spirit fell on us Who am I
to stand in God's way if this is what
God wants of me all I am as a servant
Who am I to try to hinder what God would
do and I love what the scripture says
next they fell foul didn't say a word
sometimes you wish that would happen in
your own house don't you
that folks would just fall silent
without saying a word the best the best
advice my father my surrogate dad gave
me when I when I got married
he says son everything does not require
a response amen amen you don't always
have to get your point across sometimes
we need to let God fight the battle
force amen
it said they fell silent and then when
they spoke they said listen God is
opening his church to all people to all
people who are we to stand in God's Way
and lastly this is what I love and they
praise God and worshiped him
amen my friends we serve a loving God we
serve a God that says whosoever will let
him come I don't know about you but
that's the love note right there
whosoever will let him come scripture
says it's God's will that no soul should
perish we serve a God who wants to be in
relationship with us some way I read I
believe it was Ezekiel 36 verse 26 and
27 it says this I will give you a new
heart and put a new spirit in you I will
remove from you a heart of stone - a
heart of flesh somewhere I read I
believe it was proverbs 22 and verse 2
it says rich and poor have something in
common the Lord is the maker of them all
somewhere I read I believe it was
Hebrews 12 versus 14
make every effort to live in peace with
everyone and be holy for without
holiness no one will see God what I love
about God is that God is amazing God
he's a God that is inclusive James
chapter 2 verse 8 and 9 says it like
this if you really keep the Royal law
found in Scripture
love your neighbor as yourself you are
doing what is right but if you show
favoritism you sin and you are convicted
as a law breaker somewhere I read and I
believe it was Luke 14 verses 13 and 14
but when you give a banquet invite the
poor the crippled the lame the blind and
you will be blessed although they cannot
repay you but you will be repaid at the
resurrection of his coming
this message is a great message because
it says we're in and not out it says
that the Lord has opened the church
doors for every one of us it says that
God loves you he loves me and want to be
in relationship with you and I not just
here on earth or for eternity it's right
here in Scripture I didn't say it God
said it have you ever had a change of
heart let us pray
most gracious God you are indeed a
loving gracious God that you love us
with a love that won't let us go that
you are so desirous in being with us
your creation forever and that you given
us statues and ways to live in peace
with one another and you tell us to put
aside
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you may be seated can scripture reading
this morning is from the book of John
the twenty-first chapter verses 1
through 19 after these things Jesus
showed himself again to the disciples by
the sea of Tiberias and he showed
himself in this way gathered there
together were Simon Peter Thomas called
the twin Nathanael of Cana in Galilee
the sons of Zebedee and two others of
his disciples Simon Peter said to them I
am going fishing they said to him we
will go with you they went out and got
into the boat but that night they caught
nothing
just after daybreak Jesus stood on the
beach but the disciples did not know
that it was Jesus jesus said to them
children you have no fish have you they
answered him
no he said to them cast the net to the
right side of the boat and you will find
some so they cast it and now they were
not able to haul it in because there
were so many fish that disciple whom
Jesus loved said to Peter it is the Lord
when Simon Peter heard that it was the
Lord he put on some clothes for he was
naked and jumped into the sea but the
other disciples came in the boat
dragging the net full of fish for they
were not far from the land only about a
hundred yards off when they had gone
ashore they saw a charcoal fire there
with fish on it and bread jesus said to
them bring some of the fish that you
have just caught so Simon Peter went
aboard and
hold the net ashore full of large fish a
hundred and fifty three of them and
though there were so many the net was
not torn Jesus said to them come and
have breakfast now none of the disciples
dared to ask him who are you because
they knew it was the Lord Jesus came and
took the bread and gave it to them and
did the same with the fish this was now
the third time that Jesus appeared to
his disciples after he was raised from
the dead when they had finished
breakfast jesus said to Simon Peter
Simon son of John do you love me more
than these he said to him yes Lord you
know that I love you
jesus said feed my lambs a second time
he said to him Simon son of John do you
love me he said to him yes Lord you know
that I love you jesus said to him tend
my sheep he said to him the third time
Simon son of John do you love me Peter
felt hurt because he said to him the
third time do you love me
and he said to him Lord you know
everything you know that I love you
jesus said to him feed my sheep very
truly I tell you when you were younger
you used to fasten your own belt and go
to wherever you wish but when you grow
old you will stretch out your hands and
someone else will fasten a belt around
you and take you where you do not wish
to go he said this to indicate the kind
of death by which he would glorify God
after this he said to him follow me this
is the Word of God for the people of God
good morning as always I am so
appreciative of our choir we have a
number of folks that are out of town for
various reasons this week and we have a
faithful group so I just want to say
thank you fire again for singing and
blessing us I also love it when we sing
songs that come straight from Scripture
and so today I just want to draw your
attention to psalm 46 verse 10 and it
says be still and know that I am God I
am exalted among the nation's I am
exalted in the earth the Lord of Hosts
is with us the God of Jacob is our
refuge and even as dear Eva shared this
morning about the Lord being her refuge
and knowing that God is God even in the
midst of challenging circumstances I
pray that that would resonate in our
hearts this morning
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
in the O Lord I put my trust what a
great song and thank you choir for
leading us in that way let us pray
most gracious God washed me in your
precious blood and cleanse me from
anything that might blemish me or keep
you from me what I'm grateful for the
gift of salvation but I am still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Fortson Christ's name I pray amen
I came across an interview with Joyce
Meyer probably about a year ago and she
was talking about having the right view
of God's love and so this is kind of how
it went she said when she first started
out I'm speaking publicly that she was
working with a woman's group in a small
church and she prayed and asked God what
was she supposed to say and do with this
group of ladies and she said God put it
on her heart to tell her people that he
loves them and she says come on God I
that we do at Vacation Bible School I
want something big I want something
powerful
and she says the next thing that dropped
in her spirit I want you to tell them
that I love them because many of them do
not know because if they knew how much I
love them
perhaps they wouldn't act the way they
do and she says this thought of God's
love began to move her and she said I
studied it for an entire year she goes
on to say too often we as Christians we
read something we read a chapter in the
Bible and we become an authority but it
doesn't work that way she says she says
I studied it for an entire year and I
became deeply rooted in God's love she
says and every day I would tell myself
that God loves me and when I saw a
mirror I would point into the mirror and
I would say God loves you and she said
but we need to know that God loves us
and the good times and the bad times
when things are unfair we need to know
that he loves us when things don't work
out the way that we had planned we can
still trust that God is able but we need
to know that He loves us and this is
interesting
she says the worst thing that we can say
to God is you don't love me because God
has already proven his love to all of us
he's given his only begotten Son
so that you and I might have eternal
life she says but this is what I really
want you to hear while we were yet
sinners Christ died for us and this
proves God's love for us the real
questions she says is how do we love me
back
how do we show God love and as I was
thinking about this and wrestling with
the question myself I try to show God
love through obedience through trusting
in his word for my life by being a
servant the Bible says study the Word of
God
studies show ourselves approve of
workman that need not be ashamed but
rightly dividing the word of truth I try
to show God how much I love them by the
way I treat others
and I'm sure that if I were to ask you
the same question you would be able to
respond when we look at this text we see
that the disciples had three years with
Jesus under his tutelage so to speak
doing ministry with him and for others
but in the texts that we read so much
has already happened I mean I'm looking
at the text and I kind of understand
where Peter is coming from in this text
I think Peters on an emotional roller
coaster maybe the disciples were on this
emotional roller coaster just a few
weeks ago we had Palm Sunday where they
laid their coats down and palms and they
honored Jesus as King talked about what
his kingdom was like and a week later
there were shouts of crucify him there
was this brutal beating and Jesus was
nailed to a cross Good Friday and then
we have him rising from the tomb good
news but it's an emotional roller
coaster um Peter wanted to get off of
this ride he says I've had enough in the
text he says to the disciples I don't
know about you but I'm going fishing and
the other disciples start to go with him
because Peter was a leader I mean he was
going
the right way and he took a nasty LEF
anybody's ever done that but that's what
we do we go back to what's familiar
Peter went back to the sea of tiberias
he was familiar with it he knew where
the fish was it was his hometown but he
took other folks with them and now
they're not in a room praying and
carrying for the Lord or waiting on God
they have decided to go back and do
their own thing but let's not be too
harsh on Peter because we're the same
way we do our own thing and that's what
the disciples did scripture says in
verse 3 to 6 so they went out they got
into a boat but that night they caught
nothing
scripture says he worked hard all night
but they caught nothing how frustrating
this must have been for Peter and the
other disciples could you imagine time
after time you lower your net and you
bring it back up and it's empty you
lower the net you bring it back up and
it's empty
perhaps they forgot in John 15 where
Jesus says without me you can do nothing
and here they are being where they
shouldn't have been in doing what they
should not have been doing
because it was Jesus who told Peter that
he would make him a Fisher of men
but Peter goes back to fishing one of
the things that I noticed in the text it
says that it was dark it was at night
but I wonder if this darkness indicates
Peters spiritual condition that it was
dark I wonder when we look at this text
does it not remind us of times when we
have gotten away from the Lord
times when we wanted to do our own
things times when we didn't darken the
church doors times when our attitude was
I'll get there when I get there
times when we were just like Peter and
sometimes when we're wealthy we don't
think that we need God because we can
buy everything that we need god forbid
but it's late
it's dark and peter is out there when I
thought of this darkness I thought of
the times when Nicodemus came to Jesus
at night perhaps that was an indication
of Nicodemus spiritual condition if you
go back you will notice that even when
Judas betrayed Jesus it was at night it
was dark
perhaps to describe his condition but
morning came and Jesus says hey have you
caught anything you know a fisherman
doesn't want to say we've caught nothing
I mean fishermen tell tales amen I went
on a boat with a few of my friends and I
caught something it must have been this
big and the guy took it off the hook and
threw it back in the water after I've
been fishing all day I was ready to dive
back in and get it but you know how big
that fish was when I came back right
this is the most honest fish story ever
hey did you catch anything
no we haven't caught anything catch a
net on the right side of the boat and
they did and the miracle happened
think with me for just a moment I always
tell you that I look for the love notes
in the scripture but here they are
they're tired and they're hungry and
they were frustrated until the miracle
happened where God sent these huge fists
153 the miracle happened when the net
didn't break they were able to haul in
him but when they got to the shore
listen to this love note there was coals
burning fish on it and bread maybe
that's to tell us that God knows exactly
how to take care of us Amen God knows
exactly what we stand in need of and I
imagine some fellowship went on but then
Jesus goes right to Peter and he says
Peter do you love me Lord you know that
I love you do you love me more than
these what are these did you love me
more than your hometown do you love me
more than your boat do you love me more
than being a fisherman Isaac how much do
you love me do you love me enough to
come to Providence and gain the
experience of ministry but you're not
going to be paid do you love me that
much how much do you love me
Providence this is a question that's
coming across the pages to my heart to
your heart that God is asking us the
question how much do you love me do you
love me more than these do you love me
more than the praise of men and women
how much
do you love me do you love me enough to
make a sacrifice do you love me enough
to tell other people about me how much
that I love them how much do you love me
do you love me enough to study evil how
much do you love me do you love me
enough to come to Providence and give a
testimony how much do you love me it's
coming across at the Times Peter said
Lord you know all things you know that I
love you and he asked him a third time
Peter do you love me Peter says Lord you
know that I love you you know all things
this question was raised in the church
by Samuel jack and he says he received
this letter and here was the question if
God loves me how do I love him back it's
a great question because it recognizes
that God's love requires a response
whoever believes in me should not perish
but have everlasting life
the greatest act of God's love is giving
us the gift of his
son when someone who loves us go through
great lengths to give us a special gift
we show them a love by treasuring the
gift first we have to receive it then we
appreciate it then we make use of it we
value it highly and then short we're
grateful we're delighted with the gift
in the same way we should love God back
because God has given us the greatest
gift of all he's given us his son so
that you and I might be in relationship
with him and we should determine to
delight in Jesus more than anything or
anyone in the whole world
anything can be our God we can make our
children our God now don't walk out of
here and say Reverend parson said don't
love your children I didn't say that I
said don't make your children your God
you can make your car your God it's
wherever we place our energy if you had
to pack up and 24 hours and leave your
home and go to a new place I would
wonder what you would take with you
because that's what you love but why
don't we show God the same love
greatest lover soul of the greatest
motive the world the greatest need that
he gave the greatest act his only
begotten son the greatest gift that
whosoever the greatest invitation
believed in him the greatest opportunity
should not perish the greatest
deliverance but have everlasting life
the greatest joy how do we love him back
through obedience through serving living
a life of gratitude telling God thank
you before we ask for something else
amen oh how I love Jesus oh how I love
Jesus oh how I love Jesus because he
while we were yet sinners Christ died
for you and me would you take the hand
of the person next to you Isaac would
you close us in prayer
let us pray most gracious Father we just
thank you and we love you so much
but we just thank you that you first
love us Lord even when we were yet
sinners Lord and sometimes you know we
have difficult times Lord you know
sometimes we don't feel like we are
loved but we know that you love us
regardless sometimes we go through hard
things and we go through trials in our
lives but Lord we know that your love
and your grace and your mercy is always
there father help us to receive it in
our hearts on today help us to go out
and love our neighbors as ourselves and
father we thank you and we want to give
you all the glory and praise and honor
for us in Christ's name we pray and all
of God's people said amen
of John chapter 20 verses 19 through 31
when it was evening on that day the
first day of the week and the doors of
the house where the disciples had met
were locked for fear of the Jews Jesus
came and stood among them and said peace
be with you after he said this he showed
them his hands and his side the dis and
the disciples rejoiced when they saw the
Lord
jesus said to them again peace be with
you
as the father has sent me so I send you
when he has said this he breathed on
them and said to them receive the Holy
Spirit if you forgive the sins of any
they are forgiven them if you retain the
sins of any they are retained
but Thomas who was called the twin one
of the twelve was not with them when
Jesus came
so the other disciples told him we have
seen the Lord
but he said to them unless I see the
mark of the nails in his hands and put
my finger in the mark of the nails and
my hand in his side I will not believe a
week later his disciples were again in
the house and Thomas was with them
although the doors were shut Jesus came
and stood among them and said peace be
with you
then he said to Thomas put your finger
here and see my hands reach out your
hand and put it in my side do not doubt
but believe Thomas answered him my Lord
and my god
jesus said to him have you believed
because you have seen me blessed are
those who have not seen and yet have
come to believe now Jesus did many other
signs in the presence of his disciples
which are not written in this book but
these are written so that you may come
to believe that Jesus is the Messiah the
son of God and that through believing
you may have life in his name
this is the Word of God for the people
of God
[Music]
[Applause]
let us pray
most gracious God I'm a sinner saved by
your grace but I'm truly grateful for
the gift of salvation but I'm still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to talk to you about the
sunflower the sunflower is one of my
wife's favorite flowers but the
sunflower is the only flower with flower
in its name helianthus is the scientific
name of the sunflower
helliya for Sun and Anthes for flower
but the sunflower is a symbol of faith
loyalty and adoration they follow the
movement of the Sun across the sky from
east to west sunflowers the oil from the
sunflower is used for hair conditioning
it's also used to soft and leather
is used to bound up wounds for medicinal
purposes
it's used for animal feed the all of the
sunflower is rich in minerals like
calcium and iron and it contains vitamin
A and vitamin D the Sun flower is the
national flower for the Ukraine and it
is the state flower for Kansas
sunflowers are one of the most fastest
growing plants and they can grow as tall
as eight to twelve feet the Guinness
Book of World Records records a
sunflower 25 feet in five-and-a-half
inches the sunflower is probably one of
the most amazing flowers God has created
I can't get over the fact that they
literally follow the Sun an old country
preacher was talking about this and he
says I don't know about you but one of
the most amazing things that he's seen
is not just one sunflower sort of
following the Sun but watching hundreds
of them in unison following the Sun he
says it's an incredible sight but if the
sunflower can follow the SU n the Sun
then how much more should we follow the
S o n as his disciples Amen I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought don't follow the SU n
follow the S
when I read this text I'm always looking
for what does this text mean and how can
it be useful to us but as I read this
portion of texts I think it's talking
about being a follower of Jesus a
disciple is simply someone who believes
in Jesus and seeks to follow him in his
or her life daily but being a disciple
also means that we want to put God's
Word into practice and we want to live
the way that God wants us to live how
many of you know that you can't be a
half way disciple there's no such thing
as a half way disciple you can't have
one foot in the world and one in the
church but that you've got to completely
give yourselves over to the Lord
Billy Graham received a letter and let
me just share with you the person who
wrote the letter said I'm new to the
Christian faith my parents were atheists
and were very hostile towards religion
so I'm not familiar with god bless you
I'm not familiar with some of the
religious words that Christian use for
example what exactly does it mean to be
a disciple of Jesus here's Billy
Graham's response thank you for your
letter I believe that it will be an
encouragement to others who come from
similar backgrounds but never forget God
is able to break through even the most
stubborn barriers of unbelief and bring
hope
in new life to all who sincerely seek
him Jesus promise is true seek and you
will find knock and the door will be
open unto you a disciple is simply
someone who believes in Jesus and seeks
to follow him and his or her life daily
anyone who was committed to Jesus was
called a disciple and now that's what
you are now that you have come to Christ
and are seeking to follow him what does
it mean to be a disciple of Jesus it
means first of all that we want to learn
of him and we will as we study God's
Word the Bible and listen to others
teach from the Bible the psalmist said
the unfolding of your words give light
it gives understanding to the simple
psalm 119 verse 130 but being a disciple
it means to put God's words into action
it means to become a doer of God's words
and notice this he says thank God every
day for his great love for you and ask
him to help you to share that love with
others let me go to the scripture
since 19 through 23 on the evening of
the first day of the week when the
disciples were together with the doors
locked for fear of the Jewish leaders
Jesus came and he stood among them and
said peace be with you
and after he said this he showed them
his hands in his side the disciples were
overjoyed that they had seen the Lord
and again Jesus said peace be with you
as the father has sent me I am sending
you and with this he breathed on them
and he said receive the Holy Spirit what
is this breath of life what does it mean
when it says that Jesus breathed on them
I think that part of the answer is found
in Genesis chapter 2 verse 7 it's the
climax of God's creative work it was his
extraordinary creation of man the Lord
God formed man from the dust of the
ground and then he breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life and man
became a living soul thus the supreme
creator of the heavens and the earth did
two things in creating man first he
formed him out of the dust from the
ground and then he breathed into him his
breath and man became a living soul this
distinguishes us as human beings from
any of God's other creations and what I
want you to hear is that
God alone created humanity amen we
didn't just evolve God created us one
little girl asked her mother where that
we come from and a mother shared this
passage and said God created us so she
went to her father wondering if he would
say the same thing and said daddy
how will we create it he says well there
was a monkey and ape and we began to
evolve from being a monkey to an egg to
a human so little girl was confused she
went back to her mother and she says
mama you said that we were that God
created us she said that's right
she said but daddy said that we evolved
from apes she says oh baby he's talking
about his side of the family man did not
evolve from any other creature
impersonal forces did not create man all
of the cells the DNA the atoms the
molecules hydrogen protons neutrons and
electrons did not create man are you
with me this morning
these are substance that makes up the
physical body but the Lord created us I
don't know about you but I'm telling my
son we were created by God and not from
apes because I don't want my wife to say
that's his side of the family but as we
go back to Genesis chapter 2 verses 7
the Hebrew word to form is yatza which
means to mold to shape or to form but it
creates this beautiful image of the
Potter who has the intelligence and the
power to form things in its creation but
my friends it is God who is the master
Potter who has the image of man and
woman within his mind and he possesses
the power in the intelligence to bring
life into being man is more than dust or
physical substance we are also spirit I
don't know about you but I'd like to to
think about it
imagine this lifeless body on the ground
that God created out of the dust and
then this loving father leans over and
breathes into him the breath of life I'm
always looking for a gold nugget when I
read the scripture if this is not a love
letter I don't know what is let me get
back to the scripture in John 20 verse
22 it says and then Jesus breathed on
them Jesus imparts new life and to his
disciples and as he breathed on them he
says receive the Holy Spirit so what is
this breath of God it is the life in the
power of God given to humanity so that
we might imitate him
animate him that we might do God's work
and to do gods bidding let me get back
to the scripture verses 24 through 29
now Thomas one of the twelve was not
with the disciples when Jesus came so
the other disciples told him we have
seen the Lord remember that was Mary
Madeline's are sort of testimony of
bringing the good news to the disciples
now they're bringing it to Thomas but he
said to them unless I see the nail marks
in his hands and put my finger where the
nails were and put my hand into a side I
will not believe what I love about
Scripture is that it says that the eyes
of the Lord roam throughout the earth
how many of you know that God sees and
he hears everything
anybody sometimes even when we say it in
our heart God knows and in this
particular case God heard what Thomas
said listen to how God responds a week
later his disciples were in the house
again and Thomas was with them this time
the doors were locked
scripture says Jesus came and he stood
among them and he says peace be with you
and then he goes right over to Thomas
put your finger here see my hands reach
out your hand and put it into my side
stop doubting and believe
notice what Thomas says my Lord and my
god and then Jesus told him because you
have seen me you believed blessed are
those who have not seen and yet they
believed you know if I were to say who
in the Bible was a doubter before we
read this passage you would say Thomas
because Thomas is labeled the doubter
but I came across dr. Phillip McClarty
and he challenged me on some things and
I hope that it will challenge you but he
says maybe we need to go beyond the
steer a typical way of talking about
Thomas maybe we should look a little
closer and arrive at our own assessment
of Thomas whether he was a doubter or
whether he was a disciple and then he
says Thomas reflects the doubt and the
skepticism that we all harbor deep down
inside he reminds us of who we are and
what were made of
a curious mixture of belief and unbelief
we want proof but all God
first is the possibility of faith one
man went to see mother Teresa and he
says mother Teresa I want you to pray
for me she said what is it that you want
to pray for he said that I might have
clarity she said son I've never had
clarity all I have is faith getting back
to begin with there's nothing in the
Bible to indicate that Thomas doubted
the resurrection of Jesus it simply says
he doubted the testimony of the other
disciples and that since he's no
different than any of the other
disciples who doubted the testimony of
the women who came back from the tomb
and said that the tomb was empty
this in Luke this is Luke 24 verse 11
but remember what it said these words
seemed to them to be nonsense and they
didn't believe them yet we don't label
all the disciples as doubters but we
labeled Thomas as a doubter but if we
look back a week or so before the
crucifixion
we'll find that Thomas had more than
proven his loyalty to Jesus here's what
happened Jesus got word that his friend
Lazarus was ill Lazarus lived in Bethany
and Bethany was only a couple of miles
away from Jerusalem but the problem was
this the last time that Jesus was there
he shook up the Pharisees and the
Sadducees so bad that the disciples were
afraid to go back there believing that
if they had gone back there their lives
would be taken
Jesus knew that he wanted to go back
the disciples begged him not to go
they said rabbi the Jews were just
trying to stone you and you're going
there again this is John 11 verse 8 now
John 11 verse 16 only Thomas stood with
Jesus he says let's go also that we
might die with him
Thomas was anything but wavering in his
faith he believed that Jesus was the
promised Messiah and that the kingdom of
God was at hand and he was willing to
sacrifice his own life in order for
Jesus to complete his mission when it
came to the resurrection it wasn't Jesus
that Thomas questioned but he questioned
the disciples maybe he says who's to say
perhaps they were mistaken but when
Thomas the man to see for himself he
wasn't asking for special favors he just
wanted to be treated the same as the
others Jesus appeared to the other
disciples he showed him his hand he
showed on the side perhaps Thomas was
saying why should I be any different but
face it we all want to see for ourselves
over this past week I was talking to
Sherry's husband and I said have you
seen the new movie The Avengers he says
no I said oh my goodness it is good and
let me tell you about the ending he said
don't tell me about the ending he wanted
to experience it for himself and that's
how we are we don't want a secondhand
third-hand faith we want to experience
the love of God for ourselves we want to
experience the grace of God for
ourselves am i right about it and that's
what Thomas wanted he said to himself
why should he be any different he wanted
his own encounter some like to say that
God has many children but no
grandchildren and there's a bit of truth
in that
while we embrace the faith of our
fathers and mothers we look for ways for
God to continue to reveal himself to us
and to invite us to be a part of the
journey Thomas wanted a first-hand faith
just as we all want and finally to the
extent that Thomas was a doubter well
aren't we all
all who say that they don't doubt I
questioned that let me just say to you
that God can handle our doubt Amen God
can handle our doubt Amen and I tell you
it's been in the times when I doubted
that he brought me to stronger faith in
Him how many of you know that God won't
touch a lie but it's when we are honest
and say Lord this is where I am that God
can move us further on our journey I
don't think that doubting is a bad thing
I think living in Aspen
of doubt is a bad thing but I think that
if we're honest we all doubt from time
to time until we mature in the faith but
let's go back to what Billy Graham said
never forget that God is able to break
through even the most stubborn barriers
of unbelief of doubt and to bring hope
and new life to all who sincerely seek
Him Jesus promise is true seek and you
will find knock and the door will be
opened unto you a disciple is simply
someone who believes in Jesus and seeks
to follow him and his or her life daily
lastly let me read the last two verses
verses 30 and 31 this is how John put it
Jesus performed many other signs in the
presence of his disciples which are not
recorded in this book but these are
written that you may believe I'm gonna
say it again but these are written that
you may believe that Jesus is the
Messiah the Son of God and that by
believing you may have life in his name
don't follow the S UN follow the S Oh n
follow the son Isaac would you close the
sermon in a word of Prayer
let us pray most Heavenly Father we
thank you and we love you so much lord
help us Lord in our unbelief
help us to have faith Lord and
everything that you do in our life
father we thank you that you continue to
lead us and guide us by our hands but we
are all your children Lord and we all
for sharp short from time to time but we
know that you are always there to help
us and to see us through whatever
circumstance or situation that may be
happening father I think that you
continue to guide each and every person
here today bless their families Lord in
the name of Jesus and we thank you God
for that prayer that you taught your
disciples to pray when you said our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power and the
glory forever may be yes has come forth
that we might
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
he's just 1 through 18 early on the
first day of the week while it was still
dark Mary Magdalene came to the tomb and
saw that the stone had been removed from
the tomb so she ran and went to Simon
Peter and the other disciples the one
whom Jesus loved and said to them they
have taken the Lord out of the tomb and
we do not know where they'd have laid
him then Peter and the other disciples
set out and went to Ward the tomb the
two were running together but the other
disciple outran Peter and reached the
tomb first he bent down to look in and
saw the linen wrappings lying there but
he did not go in then Simon Peter came
following him and went into the tomb he
saw the linen wrappings lying there and
the cloth that had been on Jesus head
not lying with the linen wrappings but
rolled up in a place by itself then the
other disciple who watched the tomb
first who reached the tomb first also
went in and he saw and believed
for as yet they did not understand the
scripture that he must rise from the
dead then the disciples returned to
their homes but Mary stood weeping
outside the tomb as she wept she bent
over to look into the tomb and she's
jewels in white why are you weeping she
said to them they have taken away my
Lord and I do not know where they have
laid him when she had said this she
turned around and saw Jesus standing
there but she did not know that it was
Jesus jesus said to her woman why are
you weeping
whom are you looking for supposing him
to be the gardener she said to him sir
if you have carried him away tell me
where you have laid him and I will take
him away jesus said to her Mary she
turned and said to him in Hebrew Robin I
which means teacher jesus said to her do
not hold on to me because I have not yet
ascended to the Father but go to my
brothers and say to them I am ascending
to my father and your father to my god
and your God Mary Magdalene went and
announced to the disciples I have seen
the Lord
as she told them that he has said these
things to her this is the word of God
for the people of God
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
let us pray most gracious God I am
grateful for the gift of salvation but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer
Fortson Christ's name I pray amen
Reverend davon HUS shares a story that
when he was just a little boy
there was an advertisement in the comic
books that appealed to his scientific
nature the product being offered for
sale was called the miracle plant the ad
declared that the plant would be dead
when received by the purchaser but when
placed in water it would soon
miraculously return to life he said I
ordered this wonder of nature and sure
enough when it arrived it looked
absolutely dead with leaves that were
brown and brittle he said I placed it in
a pan of water and skeptically yet
expectantly waited for something to
happen I'm not sure how long it took but
lo and behold as the water was absorbed
into this plant it actually did come
back to life becoming green and no
longer brown becoming soft and no longer
dry and brittle
it was a miracle right before my eyes
I learned since this that it's actually
called the resurrection plant this
natural phenomenon is a good
illustration of the supernatural work of
the Holy Spirit in this event that we
call the resurrection Jesus says you
cared the temple down in three days I
will raise it up let me be clear this
morning Jesus came to earth and he lived
a perfect life he died an innocent death
on the cross and from death he rose
three days later so that you and I can
have a relationship with God the Father
our sins separated us from God but it is
through what Jesus did on the cross that
our relationship with God is restored
that ought to give us something to give
God praise for God had a perfect perfect
plan Jesus said that anyone who believes
in Me shall not perish but have
everlasting life John 14 and 6 says
Jesus says I am the way the truth and
the life no one comes to the Father
except through me John 8 verse 12 Jesus
says I am the light of the world if you
follow me you won't have to walk in
darkness because you will have the light
that leads to life in John 11 verse 25 I
am the resurrection and I am the life
you see here Jesus is offering us
eternal life when we look at the
scripture some of you are familiar with
the story of Jesus friend Lazarus died
and there he was in the grave for four
days and Jesus came and said Lazarus
come forth and Lazarus came out of the
tomb bound with grave clothes so I say
to you this morning if Jesus can raise
Lazarus surely God the Father can raise
Jesus are you with me Amen I'll take
that one right there
get me excited but he for proofs
numerous appearances to comfort people
to minister to them scripture records
that Jesus was seen more than five
hundred times by five hundred people so
is it you can argue that if one or two
people saw it is probably their word
against your word but five hundred I
think not number two the growth of the
trip the Christian Church confirms that
the confirms the resurrection when we
look at Scripture and we see that after
Jesus death Peter preached in the book
of Acts and it says that day three
thousand souls were added to the kingdom
but that group of believers multiplied
into what we have now which is hundreds
of millions of believers worldwide today
somebody ought to say amen amen
all right I love this little guy and
number three the resurrection sets
Christianity apart from any other
religion no other God
is alive Buddha is dead never to live
again Muhammad is dead never to live
again Jesus is the only one who lives
somebody ought to say Amen
let me go back to description tell you
what happened in this text early on the
first day of the week while it was still
dark Mary Magdalene went to the tomb now
some of you may not know who she is but
here's this woman Jesus had cast out
seven seven demons from her and she was
grateful to be restored she was grateful
for her life she was indebted to him and
she served him and so early on the first
day of the week while it was still dark
Mary went to the tomb and when she saw
that the stone had been removed
she took off running to tell Peter and
the one whom Jesus loved now what I want
you to notice is that she never looked
in side of the tomb scripture didn't
even say she came close when she noticed
that the stone had been removed she took
off running and then she did something
really really interesting when she got
to Peter in the one whom Jesus loved she
jumped to a conclusion the stone has
been rolled away she says and I don't
know where they have taken Jesus I don't
know where they blade them how did she
know if she never looked in but she
jumped to this conclusion all on her own
maybe she needed to stay with the facts
let me digress for a minute I came
across this story it was an old man who
lived in a tiny village although poor he
was envied by all because he owned
always said this horse is a friend not a
possession and there were therefore
refused to sell his horse one morning
the horse was not in the stable and all
of the villagers said you old fool we
told you that someone would eventually
common steal that beautiful horse but
you could have earned some money perhaps
a lot of money but now the horse is gone
and you've been cursed with misfortune
the old man replied all I know is that
my horse is gone the rest I do not know
whether it be a curse or blessing I
can't say but why have you jumped to a
conclusion that's what we do sometimes
when we don't have all the information
we jump to conclusions and we try to
figure it out ourselves one time I was
talking to my son and I said why did you
do that and he says pop I didn't do that
and I said well yes you did if it wasn't
you then who did it parents you know how
we do some time and he says Papa I
didn't do it and you know what he was
right he didn't do it the very thing
that I was arguing with him about I did
two days ago hello
but I jumped to a to a conclusion
without all the facts let me go back to
the scripture verses three to ten so
Peter and the disciples started out for
the tomb both were running but it says
but the other disciple outran Peter I
don't know about you but I get excited
when I read the tax and and when I read
that I wanted to stop why was this
important to mention that John outran
Peter but for some reason it's important
so let's take a stab at it maybe John
outran Peter because he was younger
perhaps that's a reason but maybe
there's a spiritual reason when I think
of this I think of Peter had not
restored back to and so maybe his feet
was heavy from his sin you know sin
matter sin does have an effect on us are
you with me and in this particular case
it made Peters feet heavy thinking about
what he had done that's how sin affects
us it affects us and affects the people
around us sin sometimes can permeate but
it affected Peter it affected his walk
has run it's his talk and perhaps that's
why he outran Peter Reverend Don Stuart
put it best he says that the practice of
sin is not to be the natural lifestyle
of believers when we sin it often has an
effect upon us as well as others and for
one thing it run
cos of our ability to understand
spiritual truth the Bible says that it
is the Holy Spirit that helps us to
understand the will of God but when we
are burdened by sin is hard to hear what
God has to say to us when we sin
sometimes we become unfruitful sin robs
us from having children and real peace
in our lives but let me get back to the
scripture he bent over and he looked
into the tomb and he saw strips of linen
lying there but he didn't go in then
Peter came along behind him and he went
straight into the tomb and he saw the
strips of linen lying there as well as
the cloth that had been wrapped around
Jesus's head the cloth was still lying
there in place separate from the other
linen finally the other disciple who had
reached the tomb first came inside
and scripture says he saw and believed
what will it take for us to believe God
today now some of us we say we know who
Jesus is but it's not enough to know who
he is
are you living for him Isaac even Satan
knows who Jesus is but that doesn't mean
that he's living for are you with me man
oh man I'm getting excited I fear
getting my amens but it's more about
just having knowledge in our head let me
just say to you God is after your heart
today he wants you to give your heart to
him so that he can live on the inside
and teach us how to live for him he's
after our heart not just the knowledge
that we know who he is John saw in
Scripture says he believed but listen to
verse 9 they still did not understand
from Scripture that Jesus had to rise
from the dead and then the disciples
went back to where they were staying
when I think of this scene and I think
of them going into the tomb it's almost
as if Jesus left a little evidence to
help them with their belief I mean they
go to an empty tomb and Jesus saying I
don't need this borrowed tomb any longer
and by the way you can take the grave
clothes with you because I'm alive
forevermore can somebody say Amen he's
risen indeed verse 11 through 18 now
Mary stood outside of the tomb and
crying and as she wept she bent over to
look inside the tomb notice this is the
first time listen and she saw two angels
in white seated where Jesus body had
been one at the head in the other at the
foot and they asked her woman why are
you crying they've taken my lord away
she said and I don't know where they've
laid him and at this she turned around
listen to what scripture says and she
saw Jesus but she didn't recognize him
and he asked her
woman why are you crying and who is it
that you're looking for thinking that he
was the gardener she said sir
if you carried him away just tell me
where you've put him and I'll come get
him she was probably a hundred and ten
or a hundred and twenty pounds was she
going to get Jesus but I like her heart
I like Mary's heart and Jesus said to
her Mary and she turned towards him and
she says Robo knee teacher Mary was
grief-stricken and perhaps that's why
she didn't recognize Jesus nor did she
recognize that the two men in the tomb
were angels but when you've loved in a
great way and you've experienced loss of
that love you also grieve in a different
way you grieve greatly my friends when
we grieve sometimes we go through stages
of guilt periods of deep sorrow numbness
and even guilt in anger and sometimes
gradually these feelings will let up but
sometimes they go away and they come
back like a flood it's a part of the
grieving process and we may go through
these stages over and over again until
we come to the place of acceptance
perhaps in Mary accepting the reality of
this great loss she lingered the other
was left to to go back to where they
were staying but she stayed there and I
don't know about you but when I thought
about her staying there I thought about
the fact that it pays sometimes to wait
on the Lord amen it pays to wait on the
wait upon the Lord shall renew their
strength they shall mount up with wings
like eagles they shall run and not
become weary they shall walk and not
faint verse 17 through 18 Jesus says do
not hold on to me for having ascended to
my father go instead to my brothers and
tell them I am ascending to my father
and your father to my god and your God
marywade it in her reward was that she
met Jesus her reward was that Jesus made
her a missionary amen and notice Mary
goes back to where the disciples are but
this time she goes back with the facts
she says I've seen the Lord and this is
what he said to me in other words she
brought good news to the disciples I've
seen the Lord I just want to ask this
morning have you seen the Lord not
physically but God's handiwork in and
God's movement how many of you seen the
Lord in your life maybe you've seen the
Lord move upon young people I was
sharing that my first year since
seminary I was working in the church and
it was in the Baptist Church and they
did an altar call and a little boy six
years old came forward and I was to lead
him to the Lord
but I wasn't sure that he understood the
decision that he was about to make so I
thought I was smarter than him I said
son what is it that you want God to do
for you he said I want Jesus Christ in
my life as my Lord and Savior I said do
you understand the decision that you're
going to make
he says I'm a sinner in need of God's
grace are you gonna help me or what I
said I'm afraid I am Alfred actly
wrote these lyrics and we're gonna sing
them later
I serve a risen Savior he's in the world
today I know that he is living whatever
men may say I see his hand of mercy
I hear his voice of chair and just the
time I need him he's always near he
lives he lives Christ Jesus lives today
he walks with me and he talks with me
along life's narrow way he lives he
lives salvation to impart you asked me
how I know he lives he lives within my
heart he lives within my heart Isaac
would you close us in the word of Prayer
let us pray most gracious Heavenly
Father we just think you want today
thank you for your son Jesus Christ for
Lord we know that Easter is not about
Easter eggs it's not about the bunny
rabbit but it's about your son who was
crucified on the cross buried an old
borrowed tomb and rose again and he is
alive today he is alive in us and we are
his and he is ours and we thank you on
this day Lord father continued to move
modely and each and every family's life
here today we ask that you continue to
provide all of their needs according to
your riches and glory
and father we thank you for that prayer
that jesus told his disciples to pray
when he said our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever amen
may the US has come forth that we might
worship the Lord through the giving of
our tithes in our offerings
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
our second reading this morning is from
the book of Luke the 19th chapter verses
28 through 40 he said after he had said
this he went on ahead going up to
Jerusalem when he had come near Bethel
and Bethany at the place called the
Mount of Olives he sent two of the
disciples saying go to the village ahead
of you and as you enter it you will find
tied there a Colt that has never been
ridden untie it and bring it here if
anyone asks you why are you untying it
just say this the Lord needs it so those
who were sent departed and found it as
he had told them as they were untying
the colt
they said the Lord needs it then they
brought it to Jesus and after throwing
their cloaks on the coat they set Jesus
on it as he rode along people kept
spreading their cloaks on the road as he
was now approaching the path down from
the Mount of Olives the whole multitude
of the disciples began to praise God
joyfully with the loud voice for all the
deeds of power that they had seen saying
blessed is the king who comes in the
name of the Lord
peace in heaven and glory in the highest
heaven some of the Pharisees in the
crowd said to him teacher order your
disciples to stop he answered I tell you
if these were silent the stones would
shout out this is the word of God for
the people of God
well I just want to say a quick word of
thanks to all of the parents who
participated in letting their children
sing and a huge thank you to our
wonderful Sunday School teachers who
gave us a little bit of time at the
beginning of their lessons to be able to
work with the kids together so thank you
to all of those who shared that time
it's been a privilege and we've we've
been able to learn some good Hosanna
songs
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
can the church say Amen
to see our young people singing with
smiles on their faces and leading us in
that way it's a way of showing us how to
do it amen I am before I get into my
sermon I want you to look at the altar
and sometimes simple can be profound
they meant and Judy Jacobs has a way of
taking a blank canvas and making
something absolutely beautiful out of it
so I want that when service is over
please take your time to commen and and
see the altar and what she has put
together and any time she puts our hand
to something it is done well let's give
her a hand clap of praise
judi as we give a Handclap of praise
we're giving God praise for how he wired
you and the way that he's made you to be
able to use your art working in such a
way to be a blessing to us let us pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm grateful for the gift
of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
a little boy was sick on Palm Sunday and
he stayed home from church with his
mother his father returned from the
church holding a palm branch the little
boy was curious and he asks how do you
have that palm branch that you see when
Jesus came into town
everyone waved palm branches to up him
so we got palm branches today and the
little boy said oh man the Sunday I
misses the Sunday that Jesus showed up
how many of you looking for God to show
up today how many of you know that he's
got what you need amen and what I love
about the gospel is that these stories
seem simple at first but the more we
look into them we see that it's full of
meaning and purpose first question that
I want to ask is who is Jesus Christ
because I think that that's what this
story is about but unlike the question
does God exist very few people would
question whether Jesus Christ existed or
not it's a historical fact and is
genuinely accepted that Jesus was truly
a man who walked the earth in Israel
over 2,000 years ago the debate begins
when the subject of Jesus full identity
is discussed almost every major religion
teaches that Jesus was either prophet a
good teacher or a godly man but the
problem is that the Bible tells us that
she was infinitely more than just a
prophet a good teacher or godly man so
for today's sermon will you lean in will
you listen up and will you give me your
ear and maybe together we might look at
Palm Sunday anew today is Palm Sunday as
Isaac is shared and as out theists
shared in her prayer and blessing but
they taken from the Gospels where the
whole city threw a parade for Jesus and
as Jesus rode into the city the people
threw palm branches an anticipation of
his coming in the therefore we get Palm
Sunday but this date marked the time of
celebration where Jesus was worshipped
and praised Providence are you ready to
worship and give God praise this morning
this day is sometimes bittersweet
it's bittersweet because even as the
scripture was read in your hearing
we know that extreme pain and suffering
is coming we know that Good Friday is
coming we know that the cross is coming
we know that many in the same crowd only
within a few days will exchange words of
praise - words of death one day shouting
Hosanna Hosanna
and later shouting crucify him crucify
him
what a dichotomy so I want to challenge
your thinking this morning with this
thought what's significant about Palm
Sunday what is significant about Palm
Sunday Palm Sunday is the day that we
celebrate the triumphal entry of Jesus
into Jerusalem one week before his
resurrection and as Jesus enters into
the holy city he neared the culmination
of a long journey towards gal Gotha the
Gospel of Luke says that he came to save
the Lost
now was the time this was the place to
secure that salvation for all of
humanity Palm Sunday mark the stop is
often called Passion Week the final
seven days of Jesus earthly ministry or
another way Palm Sunday was the
beginning of the end of Jesus work here
on earth this is what is so significant
about Palm Sunday more specifically
as the scripture said Palm Sunday began
with Jesus and His disciples traveling
over the Mount of Olives the Lord sent
two of his disciples ahead into a
village of bet to find an animal to ride
they found an unbroken Colt and just as
Jesus had told him they would find it
and when they untied the colt the owner
began to question them and the disciples
responded with the answer that Jesus had
provided them the Lord needs it and
amazing the owners were satisfied with
that answer and let the disciples have
the colt they brought it to Jesus
through their clothes on the Colt and
put Jesus on it when we hear the word
clothes let's not be afraid of that word
it just means their coats or their robes
or their capes they laid it before Jesus
and as Jesus moved towards Jerusalem the
crowds began to swell but the crowd
understood that Jesus was the Messiah
what they did not understand was that it
was not quite yet time to set up his
kingdom although Jesus had tried to tell
them in Luke 19 verses 11 and 12 the
crowds
actions along the road give rise to Palm
Sunday very large crowds began to spread
their cloaks on the road and palm
branches but in throwing their clothes
on the road and the palm branches they
were giving Jesus what we would call the
royal treatment
just as they did for King Jehu and his
coronation second Kings chapter nine
verse thirteen and this is what is
significant about Palm Sunday on that
first Palm Sunday the people also
honored Jesus verbally the crowds that
went ahead of him and those that thought
that follows Shepherd Hosanna to the son
of David blessed is he who comes in the
name of the Lord hosanna in the highest
heavens but in their praise Jesus the
crowds were quoting or alluding to psalm
118 verses 25 to 26 here's what it says
lord save us Lord grant us success
blessed is he who comes in the name of
the Lord and from the house of the Lord
we bless you it was an acknowledged
prophecy of the coming of Christ an
allusion to this messianic Psalm sort of
upset the religious leaders of the day
they didn't like this how many of you
know that everybody's not for you and
that's a hard lesson for us to learn but
everybody is not for us and so the
disciples say I mean the Pharisee said
to Jesus rebuked your disciples tell
them to be quiet however Jesus saw no
need to rebuke those who would tell the
truth and he replied I tell you if they
keep quiet
the stones will cry out this is what's
so significant about Palm Sunday some
452
500 years prior to Jesus arrival in
Jerusalem the Prophet Zechariah had
prophesied this event that we call Palm
Sunday rejoice greatly o daughter Zion
shout daughters of Jerusalem see your
King comes to you righteous and
victorious lowly and riding on a donkey
on a Colt the fowl of a donkey zechariah
i verse 9 the prophecy was fulfilled in
every particular way indeed it was a
time of rajabu solemn the crop has
looked for Messiah who would rescue them
politically free them nationally but
Jesus had come to save them spiritually
in other words first things first
humanity's primary need is spiritual not
political not cultural nor national but
it clearly a case for mistaken identity
that's why Palm Sunday is so important I
came across this story talking about
mistaken identity with his request it
was approved the CNN news camera quickly
used his cell phone to call a local
airport the charterer flight he was told
that a twin-engine plane would be there
waiting for him
at the air arriving at the air felt he
spotted a plane warming up outside I he
jumped in with his bag slammed the door
and he shouted let's go the pilot taxi
taxi
out swung the plant into the wind and
took off once in the air the cameraman
instructed the ply to fly over the
valley
and make a low passes so that I can get
good shots of the fire on the hillside
why asked the pilot why would I do that
because I'm a cameraman for CNN he said
and I need to get some close-up shots of
the fire
the pilot was strangely silent for a
moment and finally he asks the cameraman
so you're telling me you're not my
flight instructor it was a clear case
for mistaken identity
though they waved their palm branches
and shouted for joy they miss the true
reason for Jesus presence they couldn't
neither see nor understand that the
cross was coming and that's why as Jesus
approached Jerusalem and he saw the city
scripture says that he wept over it and
he says if you even knew and if you had
we know that on this day what would
bring you peace but now is hidden from
your eyes the day will come upon you
when your enemies will not leave one
stone upon another because you did not
recognize the time of God's coming to
you you see it's a tragic thing to see
the Savior but not recognize him for who
he is I
no about you because I've done this in
my life I've been to church where I was
just a benchwarmer where I can just sit
in the seat and and endure the message
and say that I've punched my my little
ticket and I've been to church anybody
ever been there I've done that where
I've been in church but yet I haven't
been involved in church and I didn't
have the experience with Jesus I don't
know about you but I've been there and
didn't recognize what God wanted to do
in my life and with my life this past
week and I had the pleasure of speaking
to sixty youth on the FedEx burg
district I was their speaker for their
youth retreat and I shared with them as
I always share with you that God has a
plan and a purpose for your life and if
you want a relationship with God you
don't have to leave this weekend without
it and all 60 recognize that moment and
gave their lives to the Lord
rededicated their lives to the Lord
along with adults it's a tragic thing to
see the Savior but not recognize him
Isaac when I was talking to you you made
a comment about that seeing the Savior
but not recognizing them what's your
comment I was saying that even though
they saw the Savior they're missed their
time of visitation amen
this is what is so significant about
Palm Sunday but the scripture says
there's coming a day when every knee
will bow and every tongue will confess
that Jesus is Lord and what I love about
this is that he didn't say one knee will
bow that some will bow it says every
knee will bow and every tongue will
confess
this is Laporte you mean even those who
are claiming another religion it says
every knee will bow and every tongue
will confess you mean though the Muslims
are going to confess every knee will bow
and every tongue will confess that Jesus
is Lord Philippians 2 verses 10 through
11 worship see when you're
african-american you got big lips and so
sometimes I trip over my words just bear
with me there before me was a great
multitude that no one could count people
from every nation every tribe in every
language standing before the throne and
before the lamb of God they were wearing
white robes and they were holding palm
branches in their hands revelation 7 and
9 and these palm branching Saints will
shout salvation belongs to our God who
sits on the throne and to the lamb of
God we give praise that's what's so
significant about Palm Sunday when I
think
God's plan so that we might be in
relationship with him God wanted to
remove all of the obstacles out of our
way take away every excuse that we could
come up with not to serve him in Palm
Sunday was the beginning of that plan I
came across this story about obstacles
in our path
there was a wealthy and curious King
this King had a large boulder placed in
the middle of the road he then hid
nearby to see if anyone were tried to
remove this gigantic road I mean rock
from the road the first people that pass
were some of the Kings wealthiest
merchants and curious rather than moving
it
they simply walked around it and a few
not knowing that the king was there but
a few loudly blamed the king for not
maintaining his roads not one of them
tried to remove the boulder and finally
a peasant came along his arms were full
of vegetables but when he got near to
the boulder rather than simply walking
around it as others had the peasant put
down his load and tried to remove the
stone to one side of the road it took a
lot of effort but finally he succeeded
the peasant
heathered up the load and was ready to
go on his way when he saw a purse lying
in the road where the boulder had been
the peasant opened the purse the purse
was stuffed full of gold coins and a
note from the king the Kings note said
the purse is full of gold but it's a
reward for removing the boulder from the
road the king showed the peasant what
many of us miss every obstacle presents
an opportunity to improve our condition
Palm Sunday is the beginning of God's
plan to remove all obstacles out of our
way to improve our relationship with God
Almighty can the church say Amen I want
us to pray a prayer that Devi
McDaniel's offers on Palm Sunday so just
give me your ear let us pray Lord God I
give you thanks for you are good and
your mercy is endless here we stand at
the start of this Holy Week this week in
which your church will remember Monday
Thursday and your church will remember
the passion in the death of Good Friday
Lord we are distracted by many things
but turn our eyes now to the one who
comes in the name of the Lord the one
who opens the gate of righteousness the
one who answers when we call we bless
you Lord for shining your light upon us
and sending
your son to us and human frailty to walk
the road we walk open our eyes that we
may see him coming and may we worship
and praise Jesus with a pure heart and
may we walk in the way of his suffering
and share in his resurrection through
Jesus Christ our Lord who lives and
reigns with
oh all right yeah I second reading this
morning's from first Timothy chapter 6
verses 6 through 10 and verses 17
through 19 we're going to read it out of
the NIV but godliness with contentment
is great gain for we brought nothing
into the world and we can take nothing
out of it
but if we have food and clothing we will
be content with that those who want to
get rich fall into temptation and a trap
and into many foolish and harmful
desires that plunge people into ruin and
destruction for the love of money is a
root of all kinds of evil some people
eager for money have wandered from the
faith and pierced themselves with many
griefs command those who are rich in
this present world not to be arrogant
not to put their hope in wealth which is
so uncertain but to put their hope in
God who richly provides us with
everything for our enjoyment command
them to do good to be rich in good deeds
and to be generous and willing to share
in this way they will lay up treasures
for themselves as a firm foundation for
the coming age so that they may take
hold of the life that is truly life this
is the Word of God for the people of God
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
let us pray it's with me but Lord I'm
still a sinner a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you are
not me that they might hear you and not
me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
when I was 8 years old
my older brother two older brothers were
giving me a hard time and I couldn't
take it so I told my aunt who was
watching us my mother was working her
second job that I wanted to run away
from home and initially she was
nurturing and she said son you don't
want to do that we you know we're so
glad to to have you here to be a part of
this family we don't want you two to run
away but I continued as my brothers
continue to mess with me I I said I
don't want to be here I'm sick of this
place I'm running away from home well
you know Derek if you if you ran away I
wouldn't see your smiling face on Sunday
when we have the mail and that would
disappoint me and I know your mom would
be disappointed so so don't run away but
I I kept saying I wanted to run away how
many of you know that drastic times
calls for drastic measures anybody know
what I'm talking about have you ever
heard of shock therapy anybody is when
you do something out of the ordinary to
change the situation to change
somebody's thing
King and so that's what my aunt did with
me she changed from being this loving
nurturing woman and she began to use
shock therapy on me so I'm walking
behind her and I'm being really annoying
about wanting to run away and I think it
pushed her too hard limit and she turned
around and she said since you're not
happy with the things that you have and
the things that we have provided for you
then maybe it's a good thing that you
should run away let me help you pack now
when I said that I wanted to run away it
sound like a good idea anybody ever been
there but I didn't think it all the way
through so she grabs me by the arm and
she walked me to my bedroom and she says
now let me help you pack so what you may
not know is my mother was extremely
organized and so if you were to look in
my closet there you would see play
clothes still on hangers and then you
would see my school clothes on hangers
and then you would see my church clothes
so we had play clothes school clothes
and church clothes those clothes never
intersect her with anybody but anyway I
thought well I really like my suit so I
went to pick up the suit and she said
you didn't buy that put it back and I
was kind of shocked so I'm thinking well
I'll take my school clothes and I went
to reach for the school clothes and she
says you didn't buy that either put it
back and then she'd let me pick up a
pair of jeans and a polo shirt and I
laid it on the bed and she said you're
not taking that because you didn't buy
that either let me help you she grabs me
by the arm she takes me over to the
dresser and she pulled out one pair of
underwear she put in a little brown bag
like a lunch bag brown paper bag she
shoved it into my
and shoved me outside of the door of our
apartment we lived in an apartment
building and there I was in the hallway
with no plan I didn't know where I was
going I didn't know where I was what I
was supposed to do but I was standing
there thinking I just told I'm running
away but wait am i running away too and
it sounded like a good idea at first but
I did the best thing that anybody can do
with any sense I collected myself I can
pose myself as an 8 year old and I
started banging on that door trying to
get back inside and she was on the
opposite end of the door and she said no
you don't want to come in here because
you don't like what we have provided for
you and I plead with the auntie please
let me in no you don't want to come in
here because everything that we provided
you said that you don't want it no I
changed my mind I want it I want it and
she let me go on like that for five
minutes
before she let me back in I want to
challenge your thinking this morning are
you content or you content not based on
what you say but based on your behavior
are you content this morning when we
look at this portion of texts we see
that the Apostle Paul is an agent aging
seasoned missionary he's at the latter
part of his life he doesn't have long to
live on this earth he his son but truly
he is a mentor in the faith and so he
writes to young Timothy because he
understands that Timothy is timid he's
afraid
about many things
and so the Apostle Paul wants to
encourage him the scripture that we read
last week is first Timothy chapter four
and verse seven and he's talking to
Timothy to train yourself to be godly
and then we have in 1st Timothy chapter
6 verse 6 he links godliness with
contentment and then he says godliness
with contentment leads to great game so
what is contentment I think I want you
to stand right there I'll put you on the
spot
what is contentment our contentment to
me is being satisfied with where we are
being satisfied with God being our
provider in our helper in our times of
need and just being content to know that
he is there not worrying about tomorrow
because tomorrow will have its own
worries but being content in this moment
right now and thinking God for
everything that we have thank you are
you content I'll ask again
what I want to do this morning is get
you to think about Scripture this
scripture in particular but to embrace
scripture and see this is what the
Apostle Paul was doing with Timothy when
he's talking about God Li's remember
what I shared with you she's saying go
back to the word what does the word say
and the reason why the Word of God is so
important it's timeless amen
and it's relevant the Word of God is
always relevant for the time that we're
in written over how many thousands of
years ago but yet it is relevant the
Word of God is active and it's alive you
ever read something and it means one
thing and
you read it as you grow in the
scriptures as you grow as a christian
and you read it again and it means
something else anybody ever had that
experience that's because the Word of
God is active and it's alive the Apostle
Paul is saying to Timothy as you preach
share with them what this is really
about you see contentment is not a
whimsical escape from life's demands or
contentment some people think it's a
place or state of mind where we are free
from worry
that's not contentment I think at the
heart of the scripture it divides it
defines sufficiency that God can meet
our needs that God can do anything but
fail there's no failure and God that God
is faithful and that's what we need to
remember as the body of Christ as we go
through things that God can handle it
that God can take care of us in the
midst of our storms in the midst of
whatever we're going through we ought
not to be like those where it's it's
never enough no matter what God gives us
it's never enough let's not be like that
let's not be in the place where we're
always wanting more but I think
contentment means being at ease with
your own possessions with your own self
with your looks and your appearances
being satisfied with that and I think
that if we were satisfied with the way
we look and our appearances could you
imagine how much money the cosmic
industry would lose I mean people who
die their hair who color their hair who
come on anybody know what I'm talking
about
but being content with where you are in
life I think contentment is being in a
place where you're not always in
competition with somebody else too often
we're trying to keep up with the Joneses
they get the nicer car so I got to get
the nicer car they get the bigger house
so I'm gonna get the bigger house they
got a little rowboat now I'm going to
buy a big it when does it stop sometimes
even we as the body of Christ we can be
just like me at eight years old not
content with what we have are you
content this morning do you have current
enjoyment where you are
you see contented Christians don't have
to wait for six or seven figure salary
in order to be content when I'm content
I'm not looking at Isaac and wondering
why did God bless Isaac with the the
Lexus and he only gave me a Ford but I'm
happy with what I have the Apostle Paul
says whatsoever state I find myself in
therein to be content are you content
this morning it's a rhetorical question
that I want you to ask yourself deep
down inside this passage is packed with
powerful warnings
it's talking about the rich they think
they have everything that they they need
but they're never content and it's
basically saying that it goes on and it
goes on dr. King was talking about the
the passage in the scripture where Jesus
told the rich young ruler to sell all
and he says you know there is nothing in
the scripture that says that having
money is bad it says but money can be
the root of all evil but we can use
money for good are you with me but in
that he says that when Jesus told the
rich young ruler to sell all that was an
individual prescription not a universal
diagnosis are you with me this morning
but then he says this stay with the word
because the word will teach you about
godliness and godliness with contentment
will lead to great gain how many of you
want gain in your life how many of you
want to get closer to the Lord and this
is what the Apostle Paul is talking
about when I first gave my life to the
Lord I can't tell you that everything
changed overnight that all of my
thoughts had changed some of my behavior
changed it began to happen gradually but
the more I began to read and the more I
began to study the more I wanted to live
for God the more I desired not to do the
things the way that I was doing them I
can remember sitting in a Sunday School
class in the sunday school teacher she
says something about smoking and I
didn't say it out loud but in my head I
was thinking well I don't smoke and
doing my little checklist you know how
we
and then she said and and something
about drinking and I said well you know
I don't drink either so I had another
little Czech lesson you know we doing
what in our heads and and then she said
something else and I went whoa I do do
that
Jesus says there's none good but the
Father
so even when we think that we are good
what does that mean Isaac when people
say well you know he's a good well what
does that mean Jesus when we began to
read the Word of God for ourselves and
we began to understand it it will teach
us how to live are you with me and when
we mirror our lives against the Word of
God and we will show us things that we
are doing wrong things where we are
truly lining up with the Word of God and
the more that we read it scripture says
it goes down bitter but it will come up
yielding the peaceable fruit of
righteousness when we begin to truly
live the way that God has desired for us
to live godliness is a means of gain we
are to use our wealth to help other
people we're to use our wealth to do
good works for the Lord Paul is not
saying that having money is bad he's
saying that when we don't depend on God
and when we don't use our resources to
help others then it's a problem you know
in our church we have some wonderful
folks who are true students of the Word
of God and one in particular that I like
to lift up is Fred Lovelace and we were
talking about this subject and Fred
traveled and he says but I want to offer
this so I'm gonna offer you these words
these are not my words these are Fred
Lovelace words
it comes only when we fully understand
that through grace alone in the works of
Christ alone on the cross are we seen as
righteous before the Lord
it is the acceptance of our condition
under God's sovereignty and with his
Providence that we can be content as
believers in Christ we are recreated to
live into this eternal future and that
promised future should be our focus not
getting things not putting ourselves in
a place where we just want more this
insatiable desire that we can't seem to
satisfy we must truly believe that God
has an eternal plan for us beyond what
we could see or imagine in our temporal
life as Jesus told us we will have
setbacks obstacles and justices and
persecutions and when these occur we
must still be thankful even as difficult
as it might seem at the time until
Christian believers can truly thank God
for what He has given them and being
willing to accept God's provisions
contentment it's not possible are you
content this morning
not talking about a whimsical state of
mind but I'm talking about trusting God
in relying on God to lead and to guide
you all the days of your life amen
Isaac would you come in close to sermon
out with a prayer let us pray
most gracious and Heavenly Father we
just thank you on today Lord we love you
and we praise you and we thank you God
that you touch our hearts that we may be
content Lord with whatever state that we
may be in knowing that you were provide
all of our needs according to your
riches in glory and father whatever
tomorrow holds tomorrow will be tomorrow
and we know that you would take care of
today and God we thank you right now
Lord that you open our hearts father
touch our hearts touch our spirits and
whatever may be going on in our lives
continue to guide us and lead us and
Lord we thank you for that prayer that
Jesus taught his disciples to pray when
he said our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not to temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom the power and the glory forever
I've worked
we're gonna sing I rather have Jesus and
the words would be projected so I just
wanted to give a little bit of a
background for this song some of you
might be familiar with watching the
Billy Graham Crusades on TV I even
remember some of that for my
grandparents and appreciated that and
George Beverly Shea was a really
well-known composer of music and did a
lot of Billy Graham's crusade moosic and
one song that he wrote was I'd rather
have Jesus and so when Pastor Derek said
the sermon this week is on contentment
and the song that immediately sprung up
into my heart was something that I
haven't sang with a congregation in
quite some time but I think it's just
beautiful because the whole premise is
that I would rather have Jesus than all
these things that the world offers all
the fame all the glory all the the
beautiful things that can be great but
sometimes they can try to compete for
the place that God should have alone in
our lives and so Pastor Derrick is so
gracious he's agreed to sing through it
first and then I'd like you all to join
us and sing it so we're gonna have the
words projected for you and hopefully
when you hear this melody you'll say oh
yes I'm familiar with this song
[Music]
I'd rather have Jesus then silver or
gold I rather be he's then have riches
on toe
I rather have Jesus than houses on land
I rather be led by his name pissed heads
than to be the king of a vast domain or
beheld and since dread sway
I'd rather have Jesus than anything this
world affords today I rather have Jesus
[Music]
sound like a beautiful choir all
together how second reading comes from
the book of Philippians chapter four
verses four through seven rejoice in the
Lord always and again I say rejoice let
your gentleness be known to everyone the
Lord is near do not worry about anything
but in everything by prayer and
supplication with Thanksgiving let your
requests be made known to God and the
peace of God which surpasses all
understanding will guard your minds
guard your hearts and your minds in
Christ Jesus
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
made sink deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God let us pray most gracious Scott I'm
a sinner saved by your grace but I am
grateful for the gift of salvation but
the truth is I'm still a broken vessel
but I know all you have to do is say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and to do your will hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking with
the question are you content
it's easy to chase after life and so my
question for you this morning
is are you content Howard Thurman
african-american theologian says don't
ask what the world needs ask what makes
you come alive and then go do it because
what the world needs is people who come
alive how do we come alive how do we do
it we come alive when we find our true
source of power George Eliot said it is
never too late to be what you might have
been how is it that we can become what
we might have been we can do it when we
come to understand the power that is
within us Kerry and Chris shook they
wrote a book entitled one month to live
30 days of no regrets and they raised a
wonderful question for us this morning
they asked do you ever feel powerless in
your life to obtain contentment
I think the Apostle Paul understood what
it meant to be powerless but he also
understood that the power of God is
available to us when we pray are you
with me so far
power is there and is made perfect in
our weakness God's power is there to
help us to live this Christian life for
which we were created we worker eighty
created to be in fellowship with God but
the key exhortation in in this text is
to rejoice in the Lord this signifies
that the Lord is either the object of
our rejoicing or the grounding of it he
is the one in whom our joy should should
thrive
this continuous rejoicing in the Lord
it's an important concept for the
Apostle Paul and basic he's alluding to
the fact that it's a distinguishing mark
for us as believers I've gone places and
I've preached at different churches when
I was on the when I worked at the
conference I would get calls when I was
all over Virginia preaching and let me
just say that some churches that I went
to I didn't see joy on the people's
faces anybody know what I'm talking
about
I went in there and they some folks look
angry they didn't say anything they
didn't say anything to me and it was
really weird they would walk to the back
of the door and shake your hand and
wouldn't say anything and I wondered
where is the joy now I'm sure that if I
asked one of those folks leaving the
church
do you have joy they would probably say
yes I have joy and then I might have
said can you get your face to cooperate
with you because
I didn't see joy you ever bite into a
lemon you know that face you make when
you buy into a living
that was what I experienced but the
Apostle Paul was so grateful to the Lord
for his life you know he persecuted the
church he watched Steven gets stoned and
now all he wants to do is commit his
life to the cause of Christ and he's
telling us that rejoicing is what we
ought to do let me just say to you you
know when Paul wrote this he wrote this
from a jail cell he wasn't in some
comfortable office and said can somebody
bring me a pen Paul wrote this from a
jail cell if you read the book of Acts
you'll find that when Paul and Silas
they were beaten and thrown into jail
and then the scripture says and they
sang hymns I don't know about you but I
might be licking my wolves but Paul
saying him he's the right person to talk
to us this morning about having joy paul
says whatsoever state I find myself in
there and to be content it's about a
relationship for the Apostle Paul so
when we look at this pair Coupee of
texts we find that joy is a source of
power for the Christian life we find
that prayer is a source of power for the
Christian life let me go back
Philippians 4 verse 4 says rejoice in
the Lord always not sometimes but it
says
always and just you in just in case you
forgot it he says and again I say
rejoice in other words don't miss it
this is important
paulus is basically saying regardless of
how we feel we ought to be able to
rejoice regardless of whether the day is
dark or bright wet or cold whether our
days are challenging or smooth sailing
the Apostle Paul is saying we ought to
rejoice because of the goodness of God
rejoice always in just in case you
missed it again I say rejoice now let me
say that joy is not where we just kind
of grin and bear it and we grit through
life to be obedient to God that's not
the joy that the Apostle Paul is talking
about joy is not something that we can
truly produce on our own but it's the
byproduct of being in a relationship
with God joy is not something that we
can produce on our own but it is the
byproduct of being in a relationship
with God in looking at joy as the source
of Christian power dr. David Jeremiah
comes to our aid and he says the
Christian life is marked by notable
milestones and you'll find them in in
every
of them but remember just because
something is important and serious
doesn't mean that it can't also be
filled with joy and that the beauty of
deep abiding contentment his example is
salvation the day that you gave your
life to the Lord he says it's an
occasion to be joyous think about the
times when you may have seen someone be
converted maybe someone who didn't know
the Lord and now they do maybe someone
who was an enemy of God or the things of
God or the church and now they have
become followers of the Lord the Apostle
Paul is saying this is an occasion for
joy David Jeremiah says this is the
occasion for joy and then he says joy is
reflected and many of the parables that
Jesus talked about especially the one in
Luke 15 where Jesus tells three stories
and I'm not gonna tell all three but he
talks about the shepherd who left a 99
in order to go find the one lost sheep
it talks about the woman who lost a
valuable coin and then found it he talks
about the prodigal son who was lost but
found his way home back to the Father
and each story Jesus spoke of rejoicing
a joyful Shepherd a joyful woman and a
joyful son and father I say to you
that likewise there will be more joy in
heaven over one sinner who repents than
over the 99 just persons who need no
repentance
think about the ithi the Ethiopian after
talking with Philip and he gives his
life to God and he's baptized the joy
that he experienced or we can look at
the Gentile Church in acts 15 that many
gave their life to the Lord it was an
occasion for joy but I think that when I
read the scripture the Apostle Paul is
saying that if we don't have this joy in
our life then it's going to be difficult
to live this life I'm gonna be more
emphatic for those of us who have no joy
we don't have any power Nehemiah 8 and
10 says it this way the joy of the Lord
is my strength show me someone with joy
and I'll show you someone with strength
show me someone without joy and I'll
show you someone without strength John
16 verse 24 says until now you have not
asked for anything in my name ask and
you will receive that your joy might be
full and then we have the fruit of the
Spirit Galatians 5 and 22 does anybody
know the first fruit of the Spirit love
somebody went to Sunday School class
alright now here it comes what is the
second say it like you mean it
say it like a Marine alright hoorah
but this joy is a byproduct of when the
Holy Spirit gets ahold of us and it
begins to do this work in our lives and
it helps us to live in a spirit of
gratitude like the Apostle Paul he lived
in a spirit of gratitude do you have joy
this morning and then prayer the power
of prayer is a source of power in the
Christian life the idea that prayer is
inherent with power as a popular one but
according to the Bible the power of
prayer is quite simple it is the power
of God when we pray we we are
transported from this space a moment in
time with God and God begins to teach us
what to pray for he begins to show us
the way I was with my grandmother one
time and we were at the hospital and as
we walked in to the hospital we had to
get on the elevator I was about ten
years old and when we got on the
elevator she clutched my hand and she
began to pray so I said grandma are you
afraid of the elevator and she said no
son I'm not afraid of the elevator she
says but I pray because my friend is
sick and I don't know what to pray for
so I pray and I ask
to help me so that I might pray the
right things how many of you stopped to
pray and ask God to guide us my friends
I was a huge coffee drinker I used to
drink two pots a day did you imagine how
many cups that is what if I had taken
prayer more serious and every coffee
break took an opportunity to pray amen
where might you be when you think about
all the coffee breaks you take in a day
if we use them as prayer breaks but the
Apostle Paul he says don't worry about
anything but pray about everything don't
worry about anything but pray about
everything in other words bring all of
your struggles to God bring everything
that you're going through to God Paul is
saying don't be bashful
yes all of your problems everything that
you experience even your Joy's see I
believe that scriptural that when we
rejoice that God rejoices with us I
believe that when we weep that God weeps
with us that's the kind of God we serve
does anybody else believe that the
Apostle Paul says we need to tell God
all that's in our hearts that God might
comfort us we need to tell God about our
Joy's that he might be joyful
with us we need to tell God about our
longings that God might purify them we
need to tell God about our dislikes so
that God might help us to conquer them
we need to tell God about our
temptations so that God might shield us
and lead us my friends in prayer we need
to show God our wounds so that God might
heal them we need to pour out all of our
weaknesses on him because His grace is
sufficient we need to pour out all of
our needs on him because he told us to
he cares
we need to pour out all of our struggles
our troubles on the one who was able to
do abundantly exceedingly far more than
we could ask or even imagine how many of
you know what I'm talking about I came
across this and when I first read it it
says is that true and I read it again so
I'm going to read it in your hearing the
power of prayer does not flow from us
it's not in the special words we say or
the special way that we say them or even
how often we say them the power of
prayer is not based on a certain
direction we face or a certain position
of our bodies the power of prayer does
not come from the use of artifacts icons
or candles or crosses or beads the power
of prayer comes from the omnipotent one
who hears our prayers and he answers
them prayer places us an immediate
contact with the Almighty God and then
we can expect almighty results
the God to whom we pray is a source of
power for the Christian life so prayer
is the source of power for the Christian
life and joy is a true source for the
Christian life I'm going to close by
reading these six sentences to you but
from the message Eugene Peterson's book
listen celebrate God all day every day
I mean revel in him make it clear as you
can to all you meet that you are on
their side working with them and not
against them help them see that the
master is about to arrive he can come at
any minute
don't fret or worry instead of worrying
pray I'm gonna repeat that
don't fret or worry instead of worrying
pray let petitions and praises shape
your worries into prayers can I read it
again let petitions and praises shape
your worries into prayers letting God
know your concerns he knows before you
ask and God wants to bring us to
wholeness bringing everything together
for good and God wants to settle you
down and then he says it's wonderful
what happens when Christ displaces worry
of the center of our lives when God
chases it away let us pray
most gracious God you are
[Music]
receipted our reading comes from first
Timothy chapter 6 verses 11 through 16
he had the Word of God but as for you
man of God shun all of this pursue
righteousness godliness faith love
endurance gentleness fight the good
fight of faith take hold of eternal life
to which you were called and for which
you made the good confession in the
presence of many witnesses in the
presence of God who gives life to all
things and of Christ Jesus
who in his testimony before Pontius
Pilate made the good confession I charge
you to keep the commandment without spot
or blame until the manifestation of our
Lord Jesus Christ which he will bring
about at the right time he who was the
blessed in the and only sovereign the
King of Kings the Lord of lords it is it
is he alone who has immortality and
dwells an unapproachable light no one
has ever seen or Kensie to him the honor
and eternal Dominion and all of God's
people said
may the Lord had a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
may it sink deep down and bring forth
much fruit the Word of God for the
people of God okay so I love how the
Lord works so I've had this particular
anthem picked out for several months
that it would be something that we would
sing the first Sunday in Lent and I
didn't know at the time that Psalm 91
was going to be the scripture that we
would be responsibly reading but our
this song that we're singing this
morning is actually based off of Psalm
91 so you'll probably hear some parts of
that and it also has part of Oh God
our help in ages past so you'll hear
that hymn woven in as well and also I
just want to thank Laura Loper for being
willing to play her flute we're always
delighted to have her accompany us
[Music]
[Applause]
Laure you made that look easy but I know
it's difficult makes me think I can do
it but I know I can't do it let us pray
most gracious God I'm grateful for the
gift of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hi this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
want to challenge your thinking with the
thought are you looking through the eyes
of faith are you looking through the
eyes of faith
Reverend Dexter the Wakefield asked his
congregation this question how many eyes
do you have of course it was a trick
question we would all respond by saying
he says but I want you to think again in
an important sense whether you are
sighted or blind
he says you have many eyes you will look
through one kind of eyes in one
situation and another kind of eyes and
another for example have you looked
through the eyes of an offense you will
only see faults if you look through the
eyes of Envy you will see only
unfairness and if you look through the
eyes of mistress you will never allow
anyone to get close to you
we can be jaded amen we can be looking
through a lens of sometimes negativity
if you will but I want us to look
through the eyes of faith in this here
in the text that was read and you're
hearing that the Apostle Paul wants to
encourage young Timothy to look through
the eyes of faith in the midst of
whatever situation that he might find
himself in to give you a little bit of
background Timothy is the recipient of
two of the books of the New Testament
first Timothy and second Timothy we know
that his father was a Greek and his
mother was Jewish
somewhere along the line he joined Paul
on one of his missionary journeys and
they became friends Paul addresses
Timothy as my true son in the faith they
were very close Timothy was and all the
elders in the community sort of gather
round him and they laid hands on him and
they claimed him for God it's kind of
like Daniel birch when he was here
Daniel was in his early 20s finishing up
his Masters of Divinity and after he
finished his Masters of Divinity he
decided to stay on with us and do a THM
which is another theological degree for
those who are going into PhD work but he
fell in love with the pastor it because
of Providence and he went on to do great
things it was just a few weeks ago that
Daniels actually going through the
process to become an elder and one of
the folks who had to
his paper said that he talked about
Providence as being the church who
lifted him up and he will never forget
what we did for him and we will never
forget what he means to us and this is
what the Apostle Paul was doing in
Timothy's life he just wanted to lift
him up as he sent him out to churches
and sort of made Timothy an itinerate
pastor he was in the Church of Corinth
he was in the Church of Philippi and
later he was a pastor in the Church of
Ephesus but you see Timothy's mother and
his grandmother were women of the faith
Eunice and Lois raised him on the
scriptures
teaching him the Old Testament making
his spirit ever so sensitive to God my
friends that's what we're supposed to do
we're supposed to train up the child and
the way that they should go and when
they grow old they won't depart from it
that's what the word says anybody know
what I'm talking about and so here we
find that Paul of one of his missionary
journeys met this family and all three
dedicated their lives to Jesus Christ
the Apostle Paul is saying to Timothy in
this tax keep the faith keep your eyes
on God basically what he's trying to say
to him is that trials will come if you
live long enough trials will come amen I
heard somebody said we're either going
in a storm coming out of a storm or
about to go back into a storm anybody
know what I'm talking about because
sometimes that's Howard
Neels that's how life can be and the
Apostle Paul is saying hang in there
faith is like a muscle and the muscle
has to be repeatedly stretched to its
limits of endurance in order for it to
grow and without increased stress and
training the muscle won't grow as you
desire in the same way our faith must be
repeatedly tested to its limits of
endurance in order for us to grow and
develop sometimes we don't want to go
through it amen but in order to grow and
to grow our faith muscle sometimes we're
going to go through some storms
Christian evangelist George Muller puts
it this way God delights to increase the
faith of his children instead of
complaining when trials come before us
he said we ought to thank God for the
obstacles for the difficulty because
sometimes it brings the food for
increased faith what are you saying
preacher I'm so glad you asked that
sometimes God allows his children to be
confronted with obstacles with
difficulties in order to prove his
sufficiency how many you know that God's
grace is sufficient for us for
everything that we go through God's
grace is indeed sufficient for us
Christian evangelist FB Moyer suggests
that very often God allows helplessness
and sometimes failure to become so acute
so that we might understand that it's a
larger opportunity that's before us when
we go through something it's the time to
invite God in amen and then God can do a
great work in us let me go back to the
scriptures and you can hear how the
Apostle Paul is trying to encourage
Timothy but you man of God flee these
things and follow after righteousness
after godliness after faith after love
after patience and gentleness fight the
good fight of faith lay hold of eternal
life to which you were called and you
confess the good confession in the sight
of many witnesses
I command you before God who gives life
to all things and before Christ Jesus
who before Pontius Pilate testified to
the good confession that you keep the
commandments without spot be blameless
unto the appearing of our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ which in his own
time he will show who was the blessed
and the only ruler the king of kings and
the Lord of lords who alone has
immortality dwelling and unapproachable
light whom no man has ever seen nor can
see to whom the honor and eternal power
a man
but you man of God flee these things
Paul compliments Timothy
but then he reminds him of who he is you
are a believer a man
God needs to flee temptation from snares
from harmful lusts he needs to avoid
loving money and being led astray by
greed a person of God needs to look
through the eyes of faith how many of
you with me this morning the Apostle
Paul is saying struggle will come it
comes for all of us but keep your eyes
on God he promised never to leave us
never to leave us alone when I think of
the eyes of faith I think about the
Philistines were at war with King Saul
none of the Israelite men wanted to go
out and fight Goliath he was 9 feet 9
inches tall and he was a warrior a
killer none of them wanted to go out and
fight Goliath but David wasn't looking
at his height he wasn't looking at his
stature David didn't need statistics on
how many people he defeated David was
looking through the eyes of faith
scripture says that he had to convince
King Saul that he could fight this giant
David says look if God allowed me to
kill a bear and to kill a lion who went
after my father sheep then surely he
would be with me and I'll defeat this
Philistine King Saul says you go David
nothing more than a tunic his little bag
with rocks in a slingshot but he had the
Lord on his side amen David was looking
through the eyes of faith and when he
went down to the valley to fight
Goliath says are you kidding me this is
all you've got you're gonna send this
little runt of I'm really and noticed
David what he says as he's looking
through the eyes of faith you come at me
with a javelin a spirit and a sword but
I come at you in the name of the Lord
today I will give your carcass to the
birds of the air in other words let's do
this thing can you imagine with me David
just winding up the slingshot he was
able to hit a bull's-eye repeatedly just
looking for the opportunity
could you imagine the Philistine saying
to himself let me get lovel with because
they must be kidding me to send this
little kid to fight me and David slung
that rock and all that armor hit him
right in the forehead and when Goliath
fell down the Philistines took off
running because they knew that the hero
was defeated my friends when we call
upon God as we look through the eyes of
faith how many of you know that God will
show up he'll show up in due season when
I think of looking through the eyes of
faith I think of the woman with the
issue of blood the scripture says that
she had this issue for 12 years she had
gone to see many doctors but to no avail
they were not able to do anything for
her in fact the scripture says she got
worse but she heard that Jesus was
coming through town and looking through
the eyes of faith
she didn't say if he would just lay his
hand on the top of my head and say a
prayer over me I will be healed she
didn't say if I could just have one
conversation with the master and just
tell him all about it then he will find
a remedy for me no looking through the
eyes
faith she says if I can just touch the
hem of His garment I know I will be made
hold and could you imagine because when
Jesus came into town he was like a
celebrity so there was large crowds all
around him and yet she had to get to him
could you imagine her pushing away
excuse me excuse me just pushing just
trying to get to him and she finally did
and she touched the hem of his garment
and instantly she was healed and Jesus
says who touched me
the disciple says are you kidding me did
you see Oh everybody touched you why are
you asking who touched you everybody's
touched you Jesus says no the spirit the
power has gone out of me somebody
touched me who touched me I imagine him
just sort of surveying the crowd and
this woman raised a hand and she says
Jesus I touched you I've had this
problem for 12 years but I knew that if
I could just touch your garment I'll be
made whole Jesus looks at this woman and
he says your faith has made you well go
and suffer no more looking through the
eyes of faith are we looking through the
eyes of faith you see faith is the
substance of things hoped for the
evidence of things not seen sometimes
all we can see is what's right in front
of us I was talking with Shirley Hudson
I know she's ready to go underneath her
seat wondering what am I going to say
about her but I was talking to Shirley
Hudson and she was doing the Chad's and
baskets and she says well we put in for
thirty-plus bass because I don't
remember the number Shirley was probably
38 or something like that
and I said well you know last year we we
did over 70 bass she said yeah but I'm
not sure that that's gonna happen this
year I said I believe we're gonna do
better than 70 she says really I said I
think we're gonna do 90 baskets she said
you do 90 baskets I'm gonna dance in
church I said well you better get ready
because we're gonna do 90 baskets and me
and Shirley we we both danced in the
church I was looking through the eyes of
faith but Providence is that kind of
church whenever there is a need this
church will somehow fill that need
anybody know what I'm talking about and
people just show up in great ways I
remember folks saying pastor don't lock
the door I'm going to go get this stuff
and I'm coming right
we had attempted to do our directory at
least three times and each time we did
we brought Lifetouch out here I talked
with the people they gave me programs
and we set dates and nothing ever
materialized and so I just kind of gave
up and then Jolie Hutchison looking
through the eyes of faith came to me and
she said you know I want to take this
project on but being the man of faith I
was I tried to do everything in my power
to dissuade her I said well look you
know this is a real big undertaking you
sure you want to do this and she said
yes and I said well look we've done this
three times we said dates we had
Lifetouch come out you sure you want to
do this and she said this is where she
got me God sent me to do this
in other words pastor you want to stop
with all your doubting and you want to
get in get in line with faith with me
that we can do this and I said yes and
today we have a director let's give
Jolie
what am I saying I'm saying that
sometimes we can look through the
natural line and all we see that's in
front of us is an obstacle or struggle
but when we begin to look through the
eyes of faith hope will materialize Amen
I can do all things through that what oh
man I've got a few people who went to
Bible study come on I can do all though
I naked eyes we can only see our
wretchedness our hopelessness
maybe the wilderness but through the
eyes of faith let us cling to God's
wonderful work
let us cling to God's unchanging hand
here's my message for you today I don't
know what you're going through I don't
know what's happening in your families
it can be a whole lot sometimes it can
be overwhelming I dare you to look
through the eyes of faith and see if God
won't show up in great ways for you God
has an amazing track record and if you
would just trust him today in the midst
of your storm if you would just hold on
as the Apostle Paul was trying to tell
young Timothy hold on struggle is a part
of life
but it's not a surprise to God no matter
what you're going through it's not a
surprise to God amen he knows all things
and he's got you
right in the palm of his hand
the young people sing a song he's got
the whole world he's got the whole world
he's got the whole world he's got the
whole world he's got you and me brother
he's got you and me brother he's got you
and me sister
he's got the he's got the whole world
he's got the whole he's got the whole
world he's got the whole world in his
sometimes we need to go back to the
basics are you with me that he's got us
right in the palm of his hands Althea
come on up here
can I'll fear wear hat or not she don't
play I want you to close my sermon with
the word of Prayer let us pray God of
our many years god of our silent tears
we come this morning thanking you for
the privilege of hearing the word the
word about faith
surely during this Lenten season Lord
surely our faith is the kind that we
will continue to open up to understand
to give it to God to let him know that
faith is very unshod faith is very
unshakable and through this Lenten
season we know that we can give
penitence we can remember the sick we
can remember the shut-in Lord but we
know through this whole Lenten season
through Monday Thursday and Good Friday
we know that the good day is coming when
you will rise up and you will have
increased our faith and we will continue
to move on to the prize of a high
calling in Jesus name we thank you Lord
may the words of our mouth and the
meditations of our hearts be acceptable
in your sight O Lord our strength and
our Redeemer amen
amen
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you may be seated our second reading
this morning comes from the book of Mark
the first chapter verses 20 through 39
immediately he called them and they left
their father Zebedee in the boat with
the hired men and followed him they went
to Capernaum and when the Sabbath came
he entered the synagogue and taught they
were astounded at his teaching for he
taught them as one having Authority and
not as the scribes just then there was
in their synagogue a man with an unclean
spirit and he cried out what have you to
do with us Jesus of Nazareth have you
come to destroy us I know who you are
the Holy One of God but Jesus rebuked
him saying be silent and come out of him
and the unclean spirit convulsing him
and crying with a loud voice came out of
him they were all amazed and they kept
on asking one another what is this a new
teaching with authority he commands even
the unclean spirits and they obey Him at
once
his fame began to spread throughout the
surrounding region of Galilee as soon as
they left the synagogue they entered the
house of Simon and Andrew with James and
John now Simon's mother-in-law was in
bed with the fever and they told him
about her at once he came and took her
by the hand and lifted her up then the
fever left her and she began to serve
them that evening at sunset they brought
to him all who were sick or possessed
with demons and the whole city was
gathered
around the door and he cured many who
were sick with various diseases and cast
out many demons and he would not permit
the demons to speak because they knew
him in the morning while it was still
very dark he got up and went out to a
deserted place and there he prayed and
Simon and his companions hunted for him
when they found him they said to him
everyone is searching for you
he answered let us go on to the
neighbouring towns so that I may
proclaim the message there also for that
is what I came out to do and he went
throughout Galilee proclaiming the
message in their synagogues and casting
out demons this is the Word of God for
the people of God
this arrangement this morning is a
really fun and as the the arranger Lloyd
Larson indicated it's supposed to be a
joyous version with movement so many of
you familiar with Brethren we have met
to worship but I don't know that you've
necessarily heard this particular
version so I hope that it's something
that you just enjoy and it kind of takes
you by surprise a little bit with the
piano accompaniment
[Music]
[Applause]
that was a beautiful rendition beautiful
as I was looking at the lectionary text
this week
nothing rang out and so I asked the Lord
what is it that you want me to preach
and then he showed me this particular
text in mark but what I like about this
text is that I think that Jesus gives us
a model for daily prayer and so Sarah
since you were right there what is daily
prayer to you even before we get started
what's the daily prayer and you can pass
it to me come then I'll pass it to okay
so for me I think daily prayer is
something obviously it's daily
I can't live off of yesterday's and I
think one of the things that visually
for me helps us to think about the manna
and in the Old Testament when they were
wandering in the wilderness the Lord
said you could gather enough mana for
every day and if you try to gather too
much guess what it spoiled and it became
rotten and so I think for me like the
Lord saying don't just rely on what I
gave you yesterday or last week or last
month but what something new what
something fresh and in the season of
life that I have there's not a lot of
extra quiet moments per se so I've
learned to seek the Lord as I'm going
about my day whether there's little ones
hanging on my legs or trying to do
dishes or laundry or whatever I mean I'm
doing trying to have that communion with
him and one thing that's been an
encouragement to me is I don't know if
you all know the story of John and
Charles Wesley
their mother Susanna Wesley so the
founder of Methodism their mother
Susanna was number 25 of 25 children so
right there you see how did Methodism
even get started was by this woman who
was number 25 in her family and she
raised 19 children and John and Charles
worked the two of the brothers that we
know today who are so strong and
starting Methodism and as you can
Hatchin she had a very full life but one
thing that I read her biography and she
took her apron and she would pull it up
over her head and that was when mama was
praying and I thought you know if she
can do it with 19 kids I can do it with
7 you know I can I can find time you
know I think it's a mindset of like
Pastor Derrick was saying daily prayer
it's just something that becomes a
lifestyle it's not really something that
separate from any other part of you it's
not your Christian duty that you do over
here it's who you are it's how you live
your life and that flows you know just
from moment to moment and I love the
Gloria sightings that we've been doing
because I think that those things that
so many of our dear friends here have
shared has flowed out of their daily
prayer time and their openness you know
to what God is saying to them thank you
the importance of daily prayer you why
is Billy Prayer important to you Derrick
I am my wife will tell you that living
with a creative person is a difficult
thing and the reason it's difficult is
creativity often gets involved with the
ego and so what I have to do what makes
prayer important to me is I have to find
a time when I start the day off and I
try to get centered on Christ to get out
of the ego so that he can work through
me whatever gifts he's given me for
whatever task at hand but there has to
be a centering that is outside myself
and that's in my Creator and my Lord and
I try to do that at some way and some
time as I start the day and then
throughout the day
keep centered in that way thank you so
much as we look at this text that was
read in your hearing
they went to Capernaum and when Sabbath
came they went into the synagogue and
Jesus taught as they had never seen
before not as a Pharisee or sad you see
but he taught with power
and with authority and the scripture
says they were amazed but just then a
man entered into the synagogue who was
possessed with an impure spirit and he
cried out what do you want to do with us
Jesus of Nazareth and Jesus silenced him
and then told the impure spirit to come
out so I'm gonna break this down and
into a few sections but what does this
mean for us what is it telling us it
says to me that when we are about doing
the work of the Father evil is all
around evil is around now we don't like
talking about this in the Methodist
Church but scripture says that we don't
fight against flesh and blood but we
fight against principalities and
wickedness in high places okay I didn't
say it it's in Scripture and so what am
I saying this man was in the church I'm
not implying anything don't you walk out
here and say I implied anything I'm just
reading the scripture and Jesus rebuked
him but evil doesn't leave just that
quickly it says the man shook violently
and the spirit came out with a shriek
and as they left the synagogue they went
to Simon's house and there they found
that Simon's mother-in-law she was
laying there with the fever and Jesus
also delivers her now the mark is not
saying that or alluding to the fact that
she was demonic but he says
that her situation was serious you see a
fever in the world where there were no
antibiotics could prove fatal but what
does she had she had Jesus and when God
shows up great things can happen are you
with me this morning so what does it say
Jesus left the sanctuary after preaching
and teaching and he also rebuked this
unclean spirit and he's ready to reply
he's ready to take it down we we would
say but when he gets to the house he
finds the mother law's sick and he heals
her but the scripture goes on to say
they brought all of the sick to the door
and jesus healed people who were broken
who had diseases who are demonic he cast
out demons and that's the way ministry
is sometimes ministry can be daunting
amen
so for me I think about preaching and
and hoping that I have a good sermon but
by the time I preach it I got to start
thinking about next week because there
is the relentless return of Sabbath are
you with me and so this is what was
happening for Jesus that he couldn't get
a break that ministry can sometimes be
about interruptions but what I really
like about this text is that Jesus had
no respect of persons he didn't care who
it was if you came to him and you needed
his help scripture says he healed you he
meant your need and it's basically
saying that his love was wide spread
mark
presents us with the Jesus who chose to
remain in the house and to heal but what
I like about this text and here's the
model after all of this praying with
people and healing people and casting
out demons he found time to get alone
with the father you've got to be
intentional about it Jesus is our model
he intentionally found time to get alone
to pray to the Father to talk to the
father his prayer life leads us a great
example I came across this article it
was entitled breaking the complacency
habit by sending McMenamin and she asked
a question how do you plan to grow
spiritually in the next six to twelve
months I'm gonna let that settle with
you how do you plan to grow in the next
six to twelve months something that we
should all think about and she says I
had to start asking myself this question
not to do a new year's resolution like
some people would do in January but I
would ask myself this question to ensure
that I didn't end the year the same way
spiritually as I had started you know
the year can go by very quickly and we
might not notice the lack of spiritual
growth in our lives and you would be
surprised that when that year passed
maybe without having memorized one verse
of scripture maybe when that year passed
we may not
have confronted any of the habitual sins
in our own life maybe when that year
passed and we will not have shared the
gospel with another believer maybe
without having experienced a point and
our spiritual walk with God where he
sets on on fire and we began to live a
new a new way my friends it's easy to do
before you know it we're not doing the
things that we used to do
maybe we used to come to church more
often maybe we were involved more than
before maybe we were a part of the body
of Christ in a closer way than we were
before it can happen to any of us if
we're not intentional in our prayer life
let me just say this sheep don't go
astray just outright sheep go astray
nibble by nibbled and before you know it
they find themselves in the far country
she's saying we don't intend to become
complacent that's not our intention but
if we're not intentional in our prayer
life it can happen to any of us
and then lastly she says this sit down
with God I like that and set spiritual
goals for the new year that's good for
us to sit with God and create spiritual
goals for ourselves hey with my son I
set the bar high my wife and I because
if we set it low he'll trip over it amen
so we set it high so that he can aspire
to something that's the way we ought to
be in our spiritual life we ought to set
the bar high so that we can aspire to it
god bless you and not trip over it but
in the busyness of life Jesus gives us
insight that we need to take the time to
pray that his prayer life was real to
him it revealed his nature his heart his
mission on earth it informs us or
encourages us to do the same for if he
the Son of God incarnate needed to pray
how much more should we pray prayer was
an integral part of Jesus life and he
prayed on a regular base often wood
drawing to find time to talk with the
father I mean if you look at any of the
acts before the feeding of the 5,000
that the transfiguration praying in the
garden teaching the disciples how to
pray Jesus too faced persecution he too
faced trials and heartache and suffering
but he gives us the model to pull away
and to find time to be nourished by the
father we too should do the same thing
prayer is not the compilation of a of
long words and flowery things to say
it's not the language of just holy
people it's not some sophisticated
language of those who go to church on a
regular basis on a regular base is
simply sharing our heart with God
telling God all about it some people
pray because they think that that's what
we do in our family we we pray that's
what the church has taught us that's
what our culture says we ought to do and
I agree but do you enjoy doing it
do you really have a relationship with
God or do you just do it as wrote then
again some people feel that prayer is
like an ATM you just go there and you
make a withdrawal you call upon God only
in the toughest situations Lord if you
get me through this one I'll be all
right prayer has to be more than that
and that's what I'm saying it's about a
relationship so what is prayer prayer is
the utterance from your spirit to God
telling God what's on your mind and on
your heart may I offer a parson ISM some
of you saying what's a parson ISM here's
what I think
prayer means speaking to God with
complete honesty not wearing a mask but
being vulnerable before God it's okay to
tell God you're angry are you with me
Lord I messed up Lord I don't understand
Lord I'm confused about this Lord I
prayed and I thought this will get
better but it's getting worse how many
of you know that God can even handle
your anger I've been angry with God but
God can handle our our anger and I found
that even when I prayed like that and I
talked to God he helped me to grow up
amen
he helped me to grow scripture says that
trials and tribulations come to make us
strong I don't know about you but I
prayed that prayer before said Lord I'm
strong enough I don't want any more
trials I'm Lord I'm good I'm good
anybody ever prayed that prayer he's
like I can't handle another trial but
God wouldn't put it on on us any more
than we can bear but what's my point
prayer is not some burden pass that we
have to do to say that we are Christians
I enjoy the fact I delight in the fact
that this God who sits high he listens
low to the prayers of his people that he
hears my prayer I love what John one
says in the beginning was the word and
the Word was with God and the Word was
God
it says any beginning through him all
things were made without him nothing was
made nothing that was made was made
without him in him was life and that
life was the light of mankind the light
that shine it in the darkness and the
darkness could not overcome it that's
the one that we're praying to the one
who has all power it's all right to
admit Lord I don't know how you're gonna
work this out but work it out for my
good we're praying to the one who has
all power and here's what I want you to
hear that prayer is a privilege that we
get to talk to God because it came with
the price and that price was Jesus dying
on the cross for my sins and for yours
why is daily prayer important it's our
way of communicating with a God who
loves us
prayer is the vehicle for daily dialogue
for the one who created us so important
that it's mentioned in the Bible over
250 times prayer is essential daily
prayer gives us an opportunity to share
every aspect of our lives with God not
just this one hour that we're here amen
but we could tell God all about it and
daily prayer gives us a chance also to
express our gratitude
I don't know but sometimes I listen to a
song and before you know it I break
forth and doxology and just stop and
give God praise and things because I
know I'm blessed how many of you know
that you're blessed or we've got a few
hands a few people went to Sunday school
but you keep on coming and all the hands
will go up because we are a blessed
people daily pair prayer provides the
platform for which we can have
confidence and going to God and asking
for prayer I think prayer is an act of
worship when we take the time and we go
when we pray and as you said here you
got to find the time we only got 24
hours in the day but we've got to make
the time we make time for everything
else don't let our grandchildren have a
soccer game we find time don't we I'm
getting two meddling I'm gonna stop it's
essential if Jesus
son of God would take the time to pray
so that he would have power and strength
to live this life then surely we need to
do the same as of would you lead us in a
prayer let's pray
most Heavenly Father we just thank you
on this morning lord help us in our
prayer to pray to You Lord openly and
honestly help us Lord to be nekkid and
not ashamed before the throne of grace
that we may open up our hearts and you
may see Lord I heard our pain the things
Lord that we want to release unto you
but God we thank you that we wait and be
patient upon you to respond to us and
the Lord we just thank you that you
continue to guide us guide us in our
prayer life got us in our daily lives
guide us Lord during this time this time
where the world is not all that it may
seem to be but it's much more Lord that
you want it to be and God we just thank
you for your grace thank you for your
mercy during this time and Lord we just
pray that your will be done in our lives
now and always and all of God's people
said amen
please oh the pain
Amaya chapter 17 verses five through ten
thus says the Lord cursed are those who
trust in mere mortals and make mere
flesh their strength whose hearts turn
away from the Lord they shall be like a
shrub in the desert and shall not see
when relief comes they shall live in the
parched places of the wilderness in an
uninhabited salted land blessed are
those who trust in the Lord whose trust
is the Lord they shall be like a tree
planted by water sending out its roots
by the stream it shall not fear when
heat comes and its leaves shall stay
green in the year of drought it is not
anxious and it does not cease to bear
fruit the heart is devious above all
else it is perverse who can understand
it I the Lord test the mind and search
the heart to give to all according to
their ways according to the fruit of
their doings this is the Word of God for
the people of God
can I get there thank you so much
I'm as the choir comes down I just
wanted to share a little bit about the
background of the song that we're
sharing this morning it's called day by
day and it was written by Lena Sandell
who's known as the Swedish Fanny Crosby
so for those of you that are familiar
with Fanny Crosby was a blind woman who
wrote hundreds and hundreds of
well-known hymns in clue des des surance
so this young lady wrote the song that
we're gonna sing today and her name is
Lena Sandell and often as it is so many
times things that come out of our lives
that are difficult God brings something
beautiful and when this young lady was
26 she witnessed her father being swept
overboard from the ship that they were
on and he was a pastor but he passed
away and that really struck her it was a
difficult time in her life so this song
actually came out of her clinging to the
Lord and just finding a new place of
faith and Trust so one of the things
that she says is day by day and with
each passing moment 'strength i find to
meet my trials here trusting in my
father's wise bestowment I've no cause
for worry or for fear
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
amen
[Music]
let us pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm grateful for the gift
of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
may the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the simple thought that the
heart is deceitfully wicked that's what
the Prophet Jeremiah shares with us came
across a story that I like to share with
you it was a woman whose husband had
been in a coma for a month he would go
in and out of this coma but this time he
came out of the coma and when he came
out he asked his wife to sit on the bed
next to him he had tears in his eyes and
he says sweetheart you've always been
there he says when I lost my job you
were there she said yes I was and when I
started the new business you were there
yes I was and when that business failed
you were there yes I was
and when the business failed and we lost
the house you were right there she said
yes I was and when my health began to
fail you were there
yes I was he says sweetheart you know
what no tears are in her eyes and her
heart is filled with warmth and splendor
she said yes honey what he said I think
you're bad luck the heart is deceitfully
wicked one Sunday school teacher
concerned that our students might be a
little confused about Jesus so she asked
this question where is Jesus the little
Timmy spoke up and said he's in heaven
the teacher smiled and said that's right
he isn't heaven Mary raised her hand and
Mary says no Jesus is in our heart
she said that's right he's in our hearts
and little Johnny was waving his hand
and she said yes Johnny where is Jesus
he says he's not in heaven and he's not
in our heart she said no well where is
he
he's in my bathroom at home he's in your
bathroom at home help me understand he
said well in our house there's only one
bathroom and every morning my father
bangs on the door and he says Jesus
Christ you're still in there the heart
is deceitfully wicked but when we think
about the heart most of us think about
the muscle in our chest that pumps blood
throughout our body but I'm not talking
about that heart this morning neither am
i talking about the heart and a romantic
philosophical or literary form but I
want to focus on what the Bible
has to say about the heart the Bible
mentions the heart a thousand times but
as human beings of course we've heard
stories about the heart from when we
were little and it's in our culture it's
in our music it's everywhere so when we
think of the heart we think of emotions
like love and affection compassion and
sorrow but the definitions of the heart
and the Bible they're not given in one
verse but they can be found throughout
the Bible but in essence this is what
the Bible says that the heart or is the
spiritual part of us where our emotions
and our desires dwell and since God has
emotions and desires he too can be said
to have a heart acts 13 verse 22 says it
like this
after removing Saul he may David their
King and God testified concerning him he
says I have found David the son of Jesse
a man after my own heart and he will do
everything that I command him to do and
then 1st Samuel chapter 2 verse verse 35
says that God blesses his people with
leaders no is in my mind and in my heart
I will firmly establish his priestly
house and they will minister before my
anointed ones always God knows the heart
amen
but the background of this tax
the Prophet Jeremiah is talking to the
people of Israel and he has a very
difficult job because the people of
Israel one moment they're following God
in the next moment they're throwing
doing their own thing following after
other guards and this is what the
Prophet Jeremiah had to talk to them
about that
it's time to serve God it's time not
even to listen to our own hearts because
he says that the heart can be
deceitfully wicked so we find that in
this text this morning that he's giving
us sort of two ideas the idea is those
who are blessed and those who are cursed
and for those who accursed he says they
are describes in terms of following
after their own mind their own will and
their own heart this person follows his
mind he trusts in men rather than in God
and in his will he makes his flesh his
strength and in his heart he departs
from the Lord
somehow this person who was curse
believes that they can make it on their
own and the Prophet Jeremiah is saying
how can this be how many of you know we
cannot live this Christian life on our
own we need them amen and so this is
what the Prophet Jeremiah comes to do is
he comes to warn the people not to be
deceived even by their own hearts and
he's basically saying that this person
who is cursed their following after
their own made their doing their own
thing and they are like as a desert
shrub it has no roots their rootless
following after any doctrine that comes
along Oh Isaac you teaching that I think
I'm going to follow you mr. Chapman
you're teaching that I think I'm gonna
follow you kind of like Church hoppers
anybody know Church hoppers they go from
one church to the next Church and they
never seem to make a commitment or
settle in somewhere the Prophet Jeremiah
is saying this person is cursed
and then he talks about the one who was
blessed he said this person is the one
who trusts in the Lord whose hope is in
the Lord in contrast to the cursed
person you know this person serves God
even in the bad times when things may
not be going as well as it could but
their trust is in the Lord they're not
going to give up on God and sometimes
that's what happens to us when things
get a little tight when things get a
little heavy when things become hard to
bear we stop trusting but he says if you
trust him
if you hang on in there if you just
remain in faith and trust God you'll be
like the tree planted by the rivers
where the roots go deep and you make it
through those difficult times you'll be
like the tree planted by the rivers
whose leaves will never never wither the
Prophet Jeremiah says Trask
but he says you know what I think the
problem is he says the problem is that
the heart is deceitfully wicked the
problem is that the heart and his
natural state can be evil and
treacherous and deceitful the heart
above all things is deceitful who can
understand it but here's the problem
with the fall of Adam and Eve
we've been tainted by sin and sin is
pervasive amen
so we've got a heart problem but the
heart problem is sin and sin is
pervasive but my friends I'm glad you
are here this morning because I want to
share a bit of good news when Jeremiah
says who can understand the heart
let me just yell out God understands the
heart amen he sees the heart even and
secret how do I know let me share with
you Psalm 44 in verse 21 would not God
have discovered it since he knows the
secrets of the heart or first
Corinthians chapter 14 verse 25 as the
secret of their hearts are laid bare so
they will fall down and worship God
exclaiming God is really among us jesus
said it this way
I the LORD search the heart I test the
mind even to give every man according to
his ways as jeremiah says jesus pointed
out the falling condition
of the heart and mark 7 verse 21 and 23
from within out of men's hearts come
evil thoughts sexual immorality theft
murder adultery greed malice deceit
lewdness envy slander arrogance and
folly all of these evils come from
inside and they make a person unclean so
the biggest problem is not external
but it's internal but I've got good news
God has a way for us to deal with our
sin problem God has a way to be in
relationship with us and we too can
change we can make that change that the
Prophet Jeremiah is offering at the end
of the 19th century Swedish chemists
Alfred Nobel woke up one morning to read
his own obituary in the local newspaper
I don't know about you but I don't want
to read my own name in the obituary but
the local newspaper said it like this
Alfred Nobel the inventor of dynamite
who died yesterday devised a way for
more people to be killed in a war than
ever before died a very rich man but
what really happened it was Alfred's
older brother who had died in the
newspaper in the news reporter had made
a mistake but this account had such a
profound effect on Nobel
decided that he wanted to be known for
something other than developing the
means to kill people efficiently and
masking wealth in the process so he
initiated the Nobel Peace Prize and it
was for scientists and writers who would
work towards fostering peace Tyla shared
with me this morning after the first
service that it went even further to
different bodies of science where the
award is given it's not just one award
is the idea but he wanted to make a
difference Nobel wanted to make a
difference and he said it this way every
person ought to have a chance to correct
their own eulogy in midstream and they
can write a new one
everyone can stop what they're doing and
do something different that's what
repentance is repentance is turning from
the direction that you were going in and
turning towards God amen we can all do
that we can stop what we're doing and we
can turn towards God my friend here's
the scripture that I use every time that
I've had an opportunity to lead someone
to Christ
it's Romans 10 verses 9 in 10 and it
says it like this if you declare with
your mouth that Jesus is Lord and
believe in your heart that God raised
him from the dead you will be saved what
is with your heart that you believe and
are justified and it is with your mouth
that you profess to faith and you are
saved
John says it like this and we all know
gave His only that whosoever should not
perish but have what we can all change
amen
but we can't live this life on our own
no one can no one can live the Christian
life without God and here's what I want
you to hear Isaac I think that sometimes
when I talk to people they think that
once they gave their lives to the Lord
that they don't need to confess anymore
and that's not true we need to confess
our lives before God daily in order to
be in good relationship with them how
many of you know what I'm talking about
my grandmother used to say that just a
little talk with Jesus makes it all
right and we need to do that often 2nd
Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17 says
therefore if anyone is in Christ he is a
new creation the old has gone the new
has come and when the new has come it
means that we ought to behave
differently now I'm going to say this to
you when I gave my life to God
at 19 That moment when I prayed I can't
tell you that everything changed in that
moment but what I can tell you is that
he gave me a heart of flesh he took a
heart of stone and he transformed it
into a heart of flesh and he changed my
desires I no longer had the desire to
live the way that I was living and
surely my thinking changed my behavior
change my commitment change I wanted to
live this life for him how many of you
know what I'm talking about
and this is what the Prophet Jeremiah
wants for us because this is what God
wants for us we can change all we have
to do is cry out to him and he will hear
the Bible says if we are faithful and
just to confess our sins if we confess
our sins that he's faithful and just to
forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us
from all unrighteousness
all unrighteousness I have one more
story that I want to share with you in
Texas in the prison system there was a
man known as the meanest man in Texas it
was a title well earned for Clyde
Thompson he was a two-time murderer at a
young age he was given the death
sentence but six hours before he was to
die his sentence was commuted to life
somewhere along the line a guard gave
him a Bible and he started reading that
Bible and he gave his life to God he
spent 28 years in prison but even after
getting out he lived his life for God
what made the difference
I asked what made the difference for
Clyde Thompson he read the word he
understood that if he would confess his
sins that God is faithful and just to
forgive him of his sins and to cleanse
him from all unrighteousness he
understood that if he would believe in
his heart and confess with his mouth the
Lord Jesus
then he shall be safe he understood John
loved even Clyde Thompson that he would
send His only begotten Son and that he
would died for him and that he would
experience eternal life he understood
that change is possible
Paul changed from being a persecutor of
the church to being a lover of the
church
Peter change from being a fisherman to
being a Fisher of men
Matthew changed from being a corrupt tax
collector to a respectful apostle the
sake has changed from a thief to a man
who gave half of his possessions to the
poor with God's help we can change amen
but the question is if we want to change
that's really where it is if we want to
change my friends I'm not bragging on
myself but I go to counseling and the
reason why I go is because the greatest
gift that I can give myself that I can
give my family that I can give this
church in my community is the gift of
working on myself I don't want to be a
hypocrite and tell other people to go
and I'll not go I want to do the work I
want to be healthy to do this work for
the rest of my life I want to be blessed
in that cursed Isaac and what I love
says if my people who are called by my
name will humble themselves and pray and
seek my face and turn from their wicked
ways then will they hear from heaven
then will I healed
their land I want you to open your
hymnals the page 206 and I want us to
just maybe sing the first stanza if we
sing it really well we'll sing another
verse if we sing it really well then
we'll send the whole thing are you with
me would you stand and we're going to
we're going to close my sermon out this
way
[Music]
[Music]
the second for a shell sound really good
let's do this second verse
[Music]
[Music]
I want to ask the quiet or do the last
verse go ahead let's do it
[Music]
thank you for being so kind please be
seated
most Heavenly Father we thank you on
today that you are the light of our
heart come into our hearts Lord purify
creating us a clean heart Lord we thank
you as you continue to move God
according to your will in our lives and
Lord help us help us to do the things
that you are calling us to do and we
thank you for that prayer that you
taught your disciples to pray when you
said our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name
i kingdom come thy will be done on earth
as it is give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not to temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power may be
our second reading comes from job
chapter 42 verses 7 through 10 after the
Lord had spoken these words to job the
Lord said to Elif as the temanite my
wrath is kindled against you and against
your two friends for you have not spoken
of me what is right as my servant job
has now therefore take seven bulls and
seven Rams and go to my servant job and
offer up for yourselves a burnt offering
and my servant job shall pray for you
for I will accept his prayer and not
deal with you according to your folly
for you have not spoken of me what is
right as my servant job has done so Elif
as the temanite and bildad the shuhite
and zophar the Nama height went and did
what the lord had told them and the Lord
accepted job's prayer and the Lord
restored the fortunes of job when he had
prayed for his friends and the Lord gave
job twice as much as he had before may
the Word of God sink deep down and bring
forth much fruit for the people of God
thanks be to God amen
so this this morning I am so thankful
that jimandlaura asked if they could
sing a duet and I said absolutely so the
song that they've been wanting to sing
is it as well and unbeknownst to be
pastor Derick had already chosen this as
a hymn for today and here we had chosen
it as special music so I love when the
Lord coordinates those things and so
what we're doing this morning is a
combination of the old well known him as
well as a slightly newer version so you
might hear parts that are familiar and
parts that are new to you so thank you
Jim and Laura
[Music]
far be it from me to not believe even
when my eyes can't see
and this mouth that's in front of me
will be thrown into the midst of the sea
[Music]
my eyes are on you and it is well with
me
[Music]
when P is like
attendeth my way
when sorrows like sea billows roll my
heart start to say with my soul it is
worth
with my soul
[Music]
it is well with my soul
[Music]
Pisan all of this glorious Lord my sin
not in part but the whole praise the
Lord praise the Lord O my soul
it is where
[Music]
with my soul
it is well it is
my soul hey when the faith shall be
sight the clouds be rolled back as a
scroll
[Music]
[Applause]
with my soul
it is what
[Music]
with my soul
[Music]
with my son
[Music]
and trust in the waves and wind still
know with my soul with my soul
[Music]
with my
[Music]
is why with my soul
[Music]
[Applause]
what a great song it is well with my
soul life happens sometimes they're
things that we cannot change about it
but to get to the place where we can say
it is well with my soul how special is
that
let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace grateful for
the gift of salvation but I'm still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking with
this statement God is sovereign God is
sovereign have one of my friends that we
talked to during the week and he will
ask me what do you preaching on and I
said I'm talking about the sovereignty
of God he said oh that's a good one I
said well what comes to mind when you
think about that he says I think about
God's faithful hand with my family
through generations my mother her mother
her mother and so forth and so on I
think about how God has blessed us to
provide for us that's what I think of
when I think of the sovereignty
God the sovereignty of God is a
Christian teaching that says that God is
the supreme authority and that all
things are under God's control Eastern
Bible Dictionary defines God's
sovereignty as his absolute right to do
all things according to his own good
will and purpose I came across this
article it was with the theologian RC
spruill and the person basically asked
if God is sovereign I mean he knows all
things he's omnipresent he has all power
if God is sovereign
then why pray and here's how RC Spruill
responded nothing escapes God's notice
nothing oversteps the boundaries of
God's power God is sovereign in all
things and then he says if I thought for
a minute that there was a molecule just
running loose I couldn't sleep at night
but I know that God is sovereign
Augustine the Catholic theologian and
philosopher said that nothing happens in
the universe apart from God and in a
certain sense God ordains everything
that happens RC sprawl says that
Augustine's what is not attempting to
absolve humanity of its responsibilities
or to absorb them from their actions but
his teaching rays
a question if God is sovereign over the
actions and the intent of humanity then
why pray at all alluding to another
question does prayer really change
anything
I imagine if you know anything about RC
spruill that this got him excited and he
was ready to answer this question
RC spruces let me answer the first
question by stating that the sovereign
God commanded by His Holy Word that we
pray prayer for the Christian is not
optional it's required let me just say
cuz I know y'all didn't hear me in the
back let me just say it again prayer for
the Christian is not optional
it's required we might ask well what a
what if prayer doesn't do anything RC
Pro said but what if it does but that's
not the real question of whether our
prayer does any good if God commands us
to pray then we must pray it is the it's
reason enough that the Lord the God of
the universe the Creator the preserver
the sustainer of life the one who
commands all things says that we are to
pray he not only commands us to pray but
he invites us to make our requests known
unto Him James says that we have not
because we ask not or that we asked
omits which means or we asked with the
wrong motives and then James 5 and 16
says that the righteous avails much
through prayer
time and time again the Bible says that
prayer is an effective tool it's useful
but let me just say emphatically prayer
works prayer works and what my buddy
Jerry was saying if you you want to know
if prayer works
I can I can call my mother she can she
if her mother were alive she could call
her and it can go through the
generations and families would stand up
and say prayer works how many of you
know for yourself that prayer works
prayer works I don't want everybody
praying for me cuz if some people say
they want to pray for you they don't
really believe I don't want you praying
for me but I want to believe or praying
for me are you with me
you don't even pray for yourself and
then you say well I'll pray for you no
that's alright I'm good I want to
believe a praying for me what I love
about this text is that we find that
this is the end of the story some people
find this text hard to accept there are
a lot of people who don't want to talk
about job and they say why would a
loving God bring all of this on Joe take
his family from them take everything why
would a loving God do that I can't
accept that and they they get angry
about it
some had put the Bible down I don't want
to read any more of this but they
haven't heard the full story you know
sometimes it's good to read what comes
before what's in the middle and maybe to
see the ending amen how many of you know
that in life we win we
know the ending of the story but we win
amen in this story which is so powerful
job has lost everything and he's
suffering with these boils on his body
and his friends so-called friends they
want to know Joe come clean tell us what
you've done to be put in this situation
I know there's some sin in your life why
don't you just confess it
tell us about it Joe we know something
had to happen now I don't know about you
but I don't want any friends like that
amen
Jobe is suffering he hasn't done
anything wrong in his knowledge and yet
on him about this and one of the things
that happened to Joe is that Joe accused
God of ordering a world of chaos and
this begins the journey of this
conversation with job and God throughout
that book of Job job once an audience
with God and how many of you know that
sometimes you better be careful what you
pray for and then it seems like the
story is about God's creativity and
humanity's inability to do what God can
do and God began to share with Joe but
can I put it in layman's terms God says
to job you don't know what you're
talking about
you don't even know what you're asking
you say that I I've ordered a world of
chaos but let me share with you since I
put this together do you know where the
storehouse of rain is kept now I don't
know about you but I'm imagine job is
like whoa do you know where the sea
begins and where it ends and it got to
the place where job says hold on God
wait a minute wait a minute
I've heard some things that I don't know
what I was talking about and I'm sorry
for for doing that sometimes it also
pays to know who you're talking to amen
and what job is going to teach us a
lesson this morning and the lesson that
I believe that job is going to teach us
as that the world doesn't evolve around
me amen too often we think that the
world evolves around us but job is about
to learn this lesson and God speaks to
him out of this world wind what I like
about this text is that God never
addresses job's question he didn't say
well job I know leads you concern about
this you're concerned about suffering
and why suffering is in the world God
never addressed his and you know what
that made me think it's too often we
think that we can direct God through
prayer we can tell god what to do how
many of you know we can't tell god what
to do
amen God is sovereign God's gonna do his
own thing every now and then I have to
say to my 14 year old son
I'm Papa let me be popular I'm Papa I
got it
and then I say to myself man I sound
like my mother anybody ever been there
we start to sound like our parents you
know to me but Joe doesn't get his
questions answered God does not declare
Jobe innocent or guilty but he changed
the subject and he talks about the
wonders of the world God shows that he
is sovereign so what does all this
creation talk about all I can tell you
is that Jobe remains in the dark about
why he or anyone should suffer but this
happens to us sometimes sometimes we ask
God a question it maybe we don't like
the answer we get maybe we feel as
though God is silent on our questions
not shared that's what some of you
Natalia and I and Joshua were visiting
with uncle Bubba I was riding in a car
with him going to church uncle bubbler
has lost three of his sons over time not
at the same time but he lost three sons
and and I said how did you and aunt you
let her get through that he's driving
he's thinking about it I saw him
swallowing tear ran down his face and he
says Derrick all I can tell you is that
if it were not for God we could not have
gotten through each one of those deaths
of our children he says all I can tell
you is that God is with me now when I
get to the other side
I'll ask my questions
but I don't think that those questions
could be answered on this side what I'm
saying to you
is that maybe we need to have a faith
like uncle Bubba a faith that says no
matter what I go through I'm going to
trust God and I'm gonna hold on to God's
unchanging hand are you with me this
morning I don't like what I'm going
through I don't understand what I'm
going through but my best bet is to hold
on to God's unchanging hand and I'm not
gonna let go God is sovereign one of the
things that I noticed in this text when
I read it was that job's friends was
talking about God but they never talked
to God what I noticed is that even
though he's in this bad condition with
this health they never prayed for him
don't you find that interesting that the
scriptures I said let me go back and let
me read it again I know you a detailed
person so I went back I looked but they
claim to be his friends but they were
the sin police hew I know you've sinned
and that's why all of this stuff has
come upon you tell me why my friends
that's not our role that's not the role
that we're supposed to play what I have
friends and they mess up and they decide
to call me I want them to make it right
with him amen
I don't want any details about anything
I got enough stuff in my life amen but
what I want to do when folks come to me
is I want to say did you confess it to
the Lord not to me and let's get back on
track with him amen
that's the most important thing the
friends didn't even pray for Joe and now
what's interesting is that job the
sufferer becomes job
the mediator for them and I like how God
deals with them and the scripture
nothing is outside of God's gaze God
sees everything and God knows everything
scripture says if I go to heaven thou
are there if I make my bed and held our
there if I take the wings of the morning
and dwell in the uttermost parts of the
sea even there how God will be amen
God sees everything and he knows
everything we don't get away with
anything amen none of us do some of us
have lied to ourselves to believe that
we can get away with stuff but no one
gets away my grandmother said it like
this you can get by but you never get
away
amen you can get by for years but you
never get away God sees everything and
then God deals with elephants
he says you're speaking about me but
you're speaking the wrong things in
other words do you even know what you're
talking about but I'm gonna tell you
what I'm gonna do you get Severin bulls
and seven Rams and y'all offering and
then have my serpent choke pray for you
and I will hear his prayer I don't know
about you but God is gracious amen that
that God didn't spank them he told him
he didn't like what they did but he
gave them an opportunity to make it
right
and then notice scripture says when job
prayed for them everything was restored
to him everything prayer works
amen prayer is an effective tool for us
as believers but prayer works what I
like about this story of job is is I see
job holding on to God with one hand and
raising his fist at God but I like that
image because even when we don't
understand and even when we become angry
with God God can handle our anger are
you with me and God worked through that
thing and before you know it your faith
is growing and is your going deeper job
learned that it's not all about me
that's a lesson that maybe some of us
need to learn some people really believe
that mama ain't happy ain't nobody happy
someone y'all really believe that but
the question for us today
is God sovereign in your life and do you
trust even when things go haywire and
you don't understand you pick up the
paper and you want to throw it out the
window you want to just turn the news
off do you trust him do you understand
that God is in control even when it
seems like things or haywire
are out of control this world is wild
and it's beautiful all at the same time
he men and before you condemn the world
scripture says for God so loved what he
so loved the what okay
this world is crazy is wild and it's
beautiful all at the same time and God
is the creator the sustainer the
preserver of everything
what I love about the book of Job is
that God sits up hard but he listens low
and he listens to his people and he
cares about what's going on with us one
man and God talks to him he talks to us
he cares about what's going on in our
lives we may not be able to explain
everything why mama and daddy left why
we are in this situation why we were
born to the parents were born to why
we're in debt or we may not be able to
understand everything but we can pray
and we can hold on to God's unchanging
hand
prayer is just not a mere exercise
prayer is us having communication with a
God who loves us so as we bow in prayer
Alethea I'm gonna call you or not lead
us in prayer have you prayed today
did you give thanks to God this morning
[Music]
that you are ready and willing to accept
God's understanding God our Heavenly
Father we come again to listen to your
word to hear your prayers to remember
job and the blessings that God gave job
[Music]
although he wondered but at the end God
gave Jill the great blessings so as we
pray dear Lord we give you thanks and
praise that we have a God who is a God
who understands us a God that we can
count on a God that we can rely on and
Trust he is us you are our sovereign God
you are all in all and we give you
thanks again and again for being that
one God who knows all who sees all and
who loves us all as we leave this place
O God let us remember Joe let us
remember that Joe
was under duress but job came out
because of prayer and of because of God
and as he came out he came out
victorious
in the blessings that God had bestowed
upon him and in that way Lord let us go
to prayer as we pray the prayer that our
Lord has given us our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
give us this day our daily bread and
forgive us our trespasses as we forgive
those who trespass against us and lead
us not into temptation but deliver us
from evil Kingdom the power forever
oh how I love Jesus
[Music]
our second reading this morning is from
first Corinthians chapter 15 verses 1
through 11 now I would remind you
brothers and sisters of the good news
that I proclaim to you which you in turn
received in which also you stand through
which also you are being saved if you
hold firmly to the message that I
proclaim to you unless you have come to
believe in vain for I handed on to you
as of first importance what I in turn
had received that Christ died for our
sins in accordance with the scriptures
and that he was buried and that he was
raised on the third day in accordance
with the scriptures and that he appeared
to Cephas then to the twelve then he
appeared to more than 500 brothers and
sisters at one time most of whom are
still alive though some have died then
he appeared to James then to all the
Apostles last of all as to one untimely
born he appeared also to me for I am the
least of the Apostles unfit to be called
an apostle but I persecuted the Church
of God but by the grace of God I am what
I am and His grace toward me has not
been in vain on the contrary I worked
harder than any of them though it was
not i but the grace of God that is with
me whether then it was I or they so we
proclaim and so you have come to believe
this is the word of God for the people
of God
let us pray oh I'm sorry Shawn Jesus
shine so while the choir comes down I
just wanted to share I'm Jew to your
testimony this morning your glory
sighting really fits with what the choir
is going to be singing cuz they're
singing shine Jesus shine fill this land
with the father's glory blaze spirit
blaze set our hearts on fire and I think
that's one of the purposes of gathering
together as the body of Christ on
Sundays is that hopefully we're getting
filled up we're getting our little flame
built up so that when we go out into the
world we have something to give it's
really hard to be a blessing to somebody
else and pass something on if you don't
already have it yourself right so if
you're feeling empty and dry this is the
time to get refreshed and renewed and
hopefully you'll feel that as the choir
sings and there's gonna be a little bit
of clapping towards the end of the verse
if you want to join in with them this
was new to me so I'm learning something
new from the Providence choir so feel
free to clap along if you'd like
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
well the sermon I know you're gonna go
so I was looking at the lectionary text
this week the lectionary texts or texts
that have been prepared and this text
jumped out to me that was read and
you're hearing today but I'm going to do
something that I don't normally do I'm
gonna ask Laura and Barbie to summarize
what I've shared with you today and if
I've missed anything as it relates to
resurrection then I want you to share
that with the congregation are you
willing to do that so let us pray most
gracious God I am a sinner saved by your
grace but grateful for the gift of
salvation lord I know all you have to do
is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hi this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you
that they might hear you let the words
of my mouth and the meditations of my
heart be acceptable in thy sight O Lord
my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
came across the story that Charles
swindled shared he said he grew up in
Houston Texas and across the street
there lived a widow by the name of Miss
Roberts her husband had recently died he
died from a sudden heart attack
at home afraid alone facing the unknown
future her grief knew no bounds but in
the weeks that followed her mother
watched Miss Roberts leave her house
every day to visit the grave of her
husband each day as she left her lonely
home for the cemetery how despairs
deepen personal relationship with Jesus
Christ
over the years my mother had attempted
to reach her with the gospel but Mitch
Roberts was not particularly receptive
and because she had no hope in Christ
she had no hope in his resurrection no
hope of any happiness in the abundant
life that Christ offers and certainly no
hope of an eternal peaceful home in
heaven
Shaul swindle continues he said I will
never forget one day my mother called me
in and she says Charles I want you to
pray right now that Miss Roberts heart
will be open to what I have to say and
right there we prayed and within a few
minutes she made her way across the
street with a batch of warm cookies and
a pitcher of lemonade that afternoon
Miss Roberts listened to the good news
of Jesus Christ for the first time and
she embraced the truth because Jesus
rose from the dead she realized death
had no claim on final victory but those
who believed in Jesus
we'll live forever can you say Amen
then he said stop and think for a moment
what if Jesus resurrection from the dead
was a fraud where would that leave us
what then would be the meaning of our
fleeting life here on earth where would
that lead us as Miss Roberts looked back
on her delightful years with her husband
but years that ended so suddenly so
confusingly that she had no answers her
fruit 'el gravesite outings only further
deepened her hopelessness but now
because of the resurrection Miss Roberts
acceptance of Jesus as Lord in her life
gave her hope beyond the grave the
resurrection let me just say this is a
historical fact it's a historical fact
you don't have to wonder about whether
it happened or not it happened it's a
historical fact resurrection is one of
the tenants of our faith and without the
resurrection there would be no eternal
salvation for any of us if Jesus does
not fully resurrect from the grave on
the third day after he died on the cross
for all of our sins then scripture and
prophecy would not be fulfilled and our
entire belief system would be in vain
but God with God forbid how many of
you're so glad that God has a plan that
God the Father had a plan now it may not
be the plan that we want but it is the
plan Jesus has to fully resurrect from
the grave before his story with us can
be made fully complete Reverend Dan Lee
in his commentary he kind of says it
like this in the midst of being busy
busy at home and busy at work and busy
at play it can be so easy not to keep
the main thing the main things he said
this can be our experience today but it
can certainly it was the experience of
the Koren church in that day they
claimed to be wise but they hadn't wised
up to what Jesus had done for them they
claimed to be spiritually mature but
they abused human sexuality they claimed
to be gifted but they neglected the
greatest gift of all the love of God
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ
and that's why Paul he starts out by
talking about Jesus Christ on the cross
but he ends with the resurrection so
some of you who like to write on your
bulletins here's five things that I want
you to remember some of you looking at
me like how did you know I write on my
bulletin I pay attention Jesus died for
our sins and his death was real right
next to it historical fact the same
Jesus who absorbed all of our sins yours
and mine
it ended he ended up in a borrowed tomb
I'm so glad that tomb was borrowed and
he didn't stay there how many of you
know what I'm talking about he only
needed it for a few hours amen and the
number three on the third day Jesus rose
from the dead with his physical body his
body was not stolen the disciples were
not hallucinating Jesus was alive in all
of these events number four or in
scripture is no surprise the scriptures
foretold it the scriptures expected it
and number five there were many
eyewitnesses scripture says over 500
witnesses saw Jesus after the
resurrection and I think the Apostle
Paul is being a little flippant when he
when he puts this in because he's
basically saying how much more evidence
do you need now we can say you know
Susan Mass you've seen Jesus after the
resurrection and Natalia you seen Jesus
after the rest of Resurrection Isaac
you've seen him scripture says over 500
witnesses saw him how much more evidence
do we need but let's face it if Jesus
didn't rise from the dead lay aside his
burial clothes and leave the tomb to
walk amongst those who loved him
then nothing really matters let me say
it another way if Jesus didn't come back
alive from the dead
his resurrection was a hoax then nothing
absolutely nothing has any meaning
without the resurrection I think any
blessings that we could enjoy it would
come to a sudden end without the
resurrection any good work that we could
accomplish what either decay or quickly
become obsolete the Apostle Paul says it
like this
he says if Christ has not been raised
then all of our preaching is useless in
our faith is vain in other words how
pointless our belief would be in a dead
Lord Buddha died never to live again
Mohammed died never to live again Jesus
is the only one who was alive amen and
not only was he resurrected but he
ascended and he sits at the right hand
of God the Father advocating for you and
I to me this is not that hard it was
hard when I didn't read scriptures but
if God can give life then God can
resurrect life amen if God can give life
then God surely can resurrect life amen
only one person went to Sunday School I
heard one amen
but our earthly blessings are just a
taste of what's to come
so what does the resurrection give us
there are a lot of benefits but I'm
gonna mention to the resurrection of
Jesus Christ is our promise that the
life that we live is not in vain
we have significance in this life and in
the life to come it's not in vain and
number two because Jesus conquered death
and because of our faith in Him we too
can anticipate victory over the grave
and when our time comes we can go
unafraid I'm reminded of Lewis Millar a
man of faith who in the last week of his
life basically told the doctors no more
meds no more medical assistance of any
kind I'm all right when I die I know
where I'm going I want to be with my
Lord and I want to be with my wife again
what a bold statement of faith because
of his promise in the resurrection I
remember not too long ago I was in a B
and R's creasy's home the last week of
her life and I experienced a peace in
that home the same peace that I
experienced every Sunday morning I come
into the same this sanctuary the same
peace
and my friends she was surrounded by
love
surrounded by favor and by grace and she
left this world unafraid death had no
sting for her she knew where she was
going but what a bold witness of faith I
will never forget the The Fearless Rock
and the solid faith of Billy Marshall
who was told that she only had three
weeks to live and I went to see her the
next day she says Derrick I I had a good
cry but after I cried my tears I began
to thank God for giving me three weeks
to put my feet Affairs in order
I love my husband Billy I love my family
but I'm ready for God to give me a new
body and I'm gonna go home and I'm gonna
be with my lord what a bold witness of
faith I'm reminded of Ronnie justice who
worked with our youth in the last week
of his life
Ronnie justice was just an amazing guy
he had this long hair went down his back
he looked like a hippie always wore
bandana around his head but he had a
childlike faith Ronnie's faith was God
said it I believe it and that's enough
for me how many of you got a childlike
faith in the last week that God allowed
me to be there with Ronnie
Ronnie's wife had died a few years
before and he says Derrick you know why
I've never tried to date someone else I
never fooled around
I said no Ronnie I don't know he said
because I'm still married to my wife he
says it's not just til death do us part
I'm married to her for eternity because
of the resurrection
Ronnie trusted in that promise for his
life my friends I can do this all day
and I can go on talking about the
resurrection but if these folks who we
believe who we trust people that we know
in their last hours of life had this
childlike faith God said it I believe it
and that's enough for me believed in the
resurrection believed in the promises of
God fret not thyself because of
evildoers ye believe in God believe also
in me in my father's house are many
dwelling places if it were not so I
would have told you I go to prepare a
place for you so that where I am ye may
be also what a promise God has given to
us and what a promise that we can hold
on - Betty Gregory I want you to come on
up here
everybody open your hymnals to page 364
i'm calling Betty Gregory up here
because she's a songbird and some of you
may not have heard her sing but this
happens to be one of our favorite songs
but is so fitting for the message today
are we going to sing the first stanzas
and you guys can join us in on the
chorus
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
I can face tomorrow
[Music]
I know
[Music]
because he knew baby and enjoy he did
but greater still
this chart can paint on certain days
because
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
I can't
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
I told you she can sing Amen Isaac I
want you to come and and lead us in a
word of Prayer
but before he prays I want you to come
before God just with a grateful heart
because God is so loving and that he has
a plan for us to be in relationship with
them not just in this life but for
eternity amen
it's a beautiful plan it's his perfect
plan for each and every one of us Isaac
would you lead us let us pray
let's Heavenly Father we think you want
today for your the death the burial and
resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord
and Savior father we thank you that he
died for our sins Lord an old death
where is your sting death did not have a
hold on Jesus Christ but he rose again
and he lives sitting at the right hand
of the Father we thank you Lord that you
continue to move mightily in our lives
that we may continue to live in the
grace that you have so generously given
unto us that we may face those days who
are that are not so assured we may face
the unknown Lord without fear that we
may go forward Lord modely in your grace
and your power and we thank you for that
prayer that you taught your disciples to
pray when you said our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom the power
ever before we take up our offering I
ask the ladies to to say something
whether I missed anything about
resurrection and these are two people I
respect highly in their study I'm going
to borrow from Fred Lovelace at the
early service one item and then add
something of my own
Fred Lovelace said when you think about
resurrection it's important not to think
what is it resurrection from and we
usually flip say resurrection from death
but resurrection to eternal life and
that that should be the focus now here's
something else just something I remember
a pastor said many many years ago in
this church that is stuck for me for a
long long time it starts with a trite
thing remember back in the 70s they used
to say today is the first day of the
rest of your life
anything yeah okay that's kind of stupid
but this pastor said think about it this
way today is the first day of the rest
of your eternal life that makes a
difference it doesn't and then it makes
it has a lot more meaning God said it I
believe it and that's enough you said to
reiterate what you had said but to me
his sermon means Jesus is everything he
lived he died he was resurrected and in
that resurrection we have hope so that
in this broken and hurting world where
we live we can have no fear no fear
because of God's promises thank you so
much let's give them a big hand
and now we're going to ask our Usher's
to come forth so that we might worship
the Lord through the giving of our
tithes and offerings
Jones reading for us our second
scripture reading is from the Book of
Jeremiah chapter 1 verses 4 through 10
now the word of the Lord came to me
saying before I formed you in the womb I
knew you and before you were born I
consecrated you I appointed you a
prophet to the nation's then I said Lord
God truly I do not know how to speak for
I am only a boy but the Lord said to me
do not say I am only a boy for you shall
go to all to whom I send you and you
shall speak whatever I command you do
not be afraid of them for I am with you
to deliver you says the Lord then the
Lord put out his hand and touched my
mouth and the Lord said to me now I have
put my words in your mouth see today I
appoint you over nations and over
kingdoms to pluck up and to pull down to
destroy and to overthrow to build and to
plant this is the Word of God for the
people of God
well everyone is getting situated I just
wanted to mention again that our choir
is open to new people at any point so if
you are interested please contact me we
have a wonderful group of volunteers and
they all have varying levels of musical
abilities so we make it work with
everyone's skill levels if you would
like to sing with us at some point
please let me know because we're always
happy to have new members join us
[Music]
you're gonna walk out of this place
singing Here I am to worship Here I am
to bow to you know how the song gets in
your head and you keep singing it that's
because the choir you did an excellent
job that's why that will happen let us
pray
most gracious God I am so grateful for
the gift of salvation but I'm still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to take you through my journey of
of working this message and where it
took me
when I read the scripture I'm always
looking for a gold nugget in the
scripture and what I found in this
scripture today was God's love it reads
like a love letter now it's basically to
Jeremiah but I think it comes across
time for you and I so as I was thinking
about God's love this took me back now
some of you have heard my testimony
about my own call but I want to share it
again when I was born I was born a twin
Derrick and Eric but at the time the
doctors did not know that my mother was
pregnant with twins
and I came out first three pounds six
ounces I know some of you looking at me
kind of funny keep your judgment to
yourselves but my twin came out
stillborn and so the family grieved but
they also kept vigil for me and I was in
a
for six weeks and back then my mom was
not able to hold me no one could hold me
but the nurses no one of my family and
my grandmother came and she was the
first one to hold me and she kissed me
and she began to sing to me and she
rocked me she did the grandmas Rock
y'all know the grandmas Rock right and
she's saying jesus loves me for the
little one they are we yes jesus loves
me yes jesus loves me yes jesus loves me
the Bible tells and after singing to me
she began to pray and to thank God for
my life but she offered me back into the
service of the Lord she never told a
soul that she had done this and it
wasn't until I received my call to
ministry and I told her about it that
she told me but at five years old my mom
and my dad got into a huge fight I
remember it like it was yesterday
and my mother told my father that if he
came home and toxicated again that would
be his last day of living at our home my
father
was very stubborn he wanted to do what
he wanted to do and my mother packed all
of his things and my father left as a
kid
I I couldn't understand what was
happening I was only five years old but
it was as if my security blanket was
taken away from me
and I'll be honest with you I went
through life angry about it wondering
why would God allow this to happen
and in hindsight as I was looking at
this scripture and thinking about the
times when I had the most fun of the
most joy it was when I was in church I
sang in the choir I was a part of the
Usher board and I enjoyed it but that
was probably the best times for me but I
didn't feel God's love anybody ever been
there even when people would tell me
that God loves me that he's there for me
I did not feel God's love I kind of saw
my life as a mistake so then I came
across this poll that says you are not a
mistake you are who you are for a reason
you're part of an
intricate plan your precious and perfect
a unique design called God's special
woman or special man you look like you
look for a reason how God made no
mistake he knit you together in the womb
you're just what he wanted to make the
parents you had were the ones he chose
and no matter how you may feel they were
custom designed with God's plan in mind
and they bear the master seal know that
trauma that you faced was not easy
and God wept that it hurt you so but it
was allowed to shape your heart so that
into his likeness you would grow you are
who you are for reason you've been
formed by the Masters rod you are who
you are beloved because there is a God
sometimes we need to go back we need to
look at our lives look at our childhoods
but if we go back I dare you to go back
and take a look because what you will
find is that God was always there but as
I was growing up I didn't know that so
at 14 I left the church because of a
disagreement I had with the pastor who
spoke to my mother poorly some 4 14 to
19 I sort of did my own thing live my
own life I did not experience the love
of God but
nineteen I made that confession of faith
and I like what Max Lucado says he says
it like this we all enjoy a good love
story and every great story love is
demonstrated through action through
sacrifice and I think that this is the
kind of story that we're talking about
today then he asks these questions have
you ever felt outside of God's love then
he says maybe you've committed an act
which makes you feel undeserving of
God's love has anybody ever been there
and that's what it was like for me but
when I read these this scripture it rang
in a powerful way it changed everything
and then Max Lucado came came back and
he says listen to this God loves us
God's love is undeniable unequivocal
God's love is unapologetic unimaginable
yet it's emphatic God loves us this is
what the Prophet Jeremiah needed to hear
as possibly what we need to hear this
morning that God loves us that he has a
plan for our lives
I've been fortunate to lead people to
Christ and one of the things that I say
to folks
none of us could live this life without
him
the Christian life is hard we cannot
live it without God and then I share
with them the love of God and when I
share with them that God knew them
before they were born
most people weep because they didn't
know that God loved them so one book
that I read Rick Warren's book The
Purpose Driven Life he makes a profound
statement he says you are not an
accident your birth was no mistake or
mishap your life is not a fluke of
nature your parents may not have planned
you but God did he was not at all
surprised by your birth actually he
expected it in our scripture reading
today Jeremiah learns this fact
firsthand when he hear God said to him
before I formed you in the womb I knew
you and before you were born I
sanctified you I ordained you a prophet
to the nation's I imagine that this gold
nugget this hearing that the master the
creator of the universe says to us I
know you I knew you before you were born
I created you i anointed you i've
consecrated you I've sanctified you I've
ordained you
for this purpose my friends maybe we
need to hear that again and again but
let me give you a little bit of
background on this text it was during
the time of King Josiah where God called
Jeremiah in explaining that he was
foreordained to be a prophet to the
nations of the world that he would
preach and teach repentance to the
southern kingdom of Judah why because
they were living their lives their own
way and they were worshipping of the
gods the kind of sounds like the world
we live in doesn't it and yet this was
his job and God says to Jeremiah don't
be afraid because I'm with you it's hard
to imagine that the God who created
everything that we know says to each one
of us I know you I knew you before you
were born before your mom and your dad
ever got together I consecrated you I've
got a plan in a purpose for your life
let me ask another question I think for
me it was hard to receive this message
because of my own self-worth my my own
value I didn't value life I'm talking
about that time from 14 to 19 I was just
living
or should I say functioning and so I
value what God had done for me but
sometimes it's good for us to go back
and see the handiwork of God to see
God's track record with our family our
family history how good god has been to
us you see the world values talent
beauty money success intelligence
athletic ability and it says if we don't
do these things or if we don't have
these things then we don't have worth
but thanks be to God that God says
something totally different he says your
you have worth because you're important
to me and so what I came to believe
after understanding that I am loved by
God that in those moments when I didn't
feel God's love in those moments when I
didn't feel valued or worthy I had on
the wrong spectacles I needed to change
my perspective I was thinking wrong you
know when I get tired is not good for me
to do work because I call it stinkin
thinking nothing good is really going to
come out of it when you're tired and
sometimes that's how it is with the Word
of God that we don't see our own value
because we don't value ourselves and
we're looking through the wrong the
wrong lens but in God's economy we're
worth it God says that we are worth it
Jesus said
says it this way do not store for
yourselves treasures on earth where moth
and rust do destroy and where thieves
break in and steal but store for
yourself treasures in heaven where moth
and rust do not destroy and where
thieves don't break in and steal for
where your treasure is there your heart
will be also
when our hearts line up with the holy
one with the way that he values us then
we will begin to value ourselves valued
the things of God and in the process we
will find greater peace greater purpose
in self-worth the voice of God comes to
announce our extraordinary worth and
this worth is inseparably linked to the
fact that we were made by God and for
God can you say Amen
we are valuable to God before the world
was created before you and your mom and
dad ever got together something that we
can't change this is a love letter not
just to Jeremiah but it's to all of us
you know when David got this in his
spirit he broke forth and doxology and
as the scripture that Pat loud read in
your hearing he says I will praise you
for I am fearfully and wonderfully made
marvelous are your works sometimes
is good to think about the goodness of
God how he made us and how he created us
Rick Warren continued by saying God
prescribed every single detail of my
creation he deliberately chose my race
my gender the color of my hair the color
of my skin the color of my eyes but
guess what
he's also done the same for you you and
I were not accidents we will create it
on purpose
can you imagine what Jeremiah must have
felt when he heard the god of the
universe say to say this to him before I
formed you I knew you and before you
were born I sanctified you ordained you
a prophet to the nation's when I was
looking at this scripture I was thinking
about how I ran from the pulpit for a
long time I knew at 6 years old that I
was supposed to do this but I ran from
it I didn't want any part of it
and I call it the outer call when
everybody else sees it but I didn't see
it I never heard it for myself
but there I was in Iraq of all places
and I heard God say to me just as I'm
speaking to you you will not reenlist
you will preach my word and you will
teach my word and you will draw my
people to me and I just raised my arms
and I said yes Lord I'm talking to you
this morning about the irresistible
grace of God it's there for us it's
there for you and I
I want to go on but something's telling
me to stop and the part that I want to
go on about is I want to tell you that
for God it's about a relationship if you
look at the Old Testament you look at
the New Testament you see how God made
it so that we can be in relationship
with him I'm talking about a holy God in
a sinful people he wanted to be in
relationship with us and then he sent
his son so that we would never have to
kill a lamb a ram a goat to wash away
our sins but our sins are washed away by
the blood of Christ I don't know of
another love story like this love story
but it's a love story tap your neighbor
and tell him he loves you every now and
then we need to know as my grandmother
would say you need to know that you know
that you know amen that he loves you
it's a love story of God wanting to be
in relationship with you and I and when
I read this scripture today the Old
Testament of all places I hear him
saying I love you I've always been there
at lunch today I want you to think about
your family's history go back to whether
they were in church or not in church and
just look for the handiwork of God look
for God's track record he's faithful
amen his love is real and is for each
and every one of us and I try to be
trade up because when I go out into the
streets just like Hugh Harris did I want
to be prayed up enough to be able to
share the love of Christ with someone
else I want to be able to say to them I
know you're going through a tough time
but he's never left you
he's right here I don't know about you
but my relationship where God says that
when I'm going through the toughest time
he's right there he's with me I'm never
alone you're never alone what a
wonderful message we can give to
somebody else you're never alone I don't
care what you're going through and I can
tell you stories of where I prayed with
people in the hospital who were facing
death and even in those moments they
knew that they were never alone because
of their relationship with God he
promised never to leave us never to
leave us alone he promised to be with us
even unto the ends of the age were never
alone it's the greatest love story ever
told and it continues isaac would you
close our sermon with word of Prayer
can you look to your neighbor and tell
them that God has a plan for your life
I don't think they believed you so you
think that oh I'm too old like I can't
do that I'm too young I can't do that
tell him again that God has a plan for
your life tell him one more time
God has a plan for your life it's not
over
amen let us pray God we thank you for
the plans and purposes for each and
every life here today you still have use
for us we thank you God and we allow you
to come in right now loud your spirit to
lead us Lord let us speak to that person
that you want us to speak to let us talk
to that neighbor to that stranger that
we meet on the street Lord father we
thank you right now that you speak
through us use us Lord as your disciples
because we are ambassadors of Christ and
father we thank you before you placed us
in our mother's womb you knew us you
have ordained us Lord you've consecrated
us unto yourself and God we thank you on
this morning and we just pray that your
will be done in each and every life here
today because you still have purpose for
us and all of God's people said amen
Donna come on
how screeding reading comes from second
Corinthians chapter 12 verses 6 through
12 but if I wish to boast I will not be
a fool for I will be speaking the truth
but I refrain from it so that no one may
think better of me then that is seen in
me or heard from me even considering the
exceptional character of revelations
therefore to keep me from being too
elated a thorn was given me in the flesh
a messenger of Satan to torment me to
keep me from being too elated
three times I appealed to the Lord
about this that it would that it would
leave me but he said to me my grace is
sufficient for you for my power is made
perfect in weakness so I will boast all
the more gladly of my weaknesses so that
the power of Christ may dwell in me and
therefore I am content I want to say it
again therefore I am content with
weaknesses insults hardships
persecutions and calamities for the sake
of Christ for whenever I am weak then I
am strong I have been a fool you forced
me to it indeed you should have been the
ones commending me for I am not at all
inferior to these super apostles even
though I am noting the signs of the true
apostles were performed among you with
utmost patience signs and wonders and
mighty acts may the may the Lord add a
rich
blessing to the reading the hearing of
God's Holy Word made sink deep down and
bring forth much fruit the Word of God
for the people of God
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
Spray most gracious God I am a sinner
saved by your grace but grateful for the
gift of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed or
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
Martin Luther said faith is a living and
daring confidence in God's grace I'm
gonna say it again faith is a living
daring confidence in God's grace Pastor
Rick Warren says in God's garden of
grace even broken trees can bear fruit
in God's garden of grace even broken
trees can bear fruit and Jamie McFaul
says God's grace is not an excuse to sin
but rather a reason to love and to serve
him more fully it's a reason in a cause
that apart from His grace we can't do
anything I want to challenge your
thinking with this where would we be
without the grace of God
sermon I'm gonna tell you what I started
thinking about when I started thinking
about where would I be without the grace
of God but I know that there's some here
even this morning that you've been
pleading with God about an issue a
situation and feel as though God has
been silent and maybe you don't say it
out loud but you ask yourself where is
God's grace for me that's a legitimate
question some of you have been asking
God for God to to get your spouse to
come to church and yet it still hasn't
happened and you're asking where is
God's grace for me some of you have been
asking God to repair maybe the
relationship with the child a family
member a grandchild and it hasn't
happened and you're asking where is
God's grace for me some have been asking
God to heal them of past hurts maybe to
restore their marriage and it hasn't
happened and you're asking where's God's
grace for me some even after divorce
have asked God for peace and you still
haven't received it some are asking God
for physical healing that in your
opinion it hasn't happened or maybe it's
just too gradual
but when we ask and we have not received
sometimes it makes us spiritually weary
to keep on praying and not to receive
what we need and in our weariness maybe
we reflect like this am I the problem
that's why you're not answering God did
you not hear me god are you mad at me
that's why I'm going through this God
are you silent because I don't have
enough faith do my prayers even matter
my friends have you been there anybody
but here's what I want you to hear more
than anything those feelings are real
those emotions are real but I want us to
be careful as we go down that path
because what happens is when we get
weary we start listening to the lies of
the enemy and you know what the enemy
says quire he says that god doesn't love
you that's a lie
you know what the enemy says Church it
says that God is not concerned about
what's happening to you it's a lie and
it's a trick of the enemy what I love
about
this scripture today is that the Apostle
Paul was going through something and he
knew how to pray he knew how to talk to
the Lord and he asked the Lord to remove
this not once not twice but three times
and God chose not to remove it from his
life the Apostle Paul is talking to the
Church of Corinth and he could have kept
this to himself it was his personal
prayer life between him and God but he
chose not to do that he chose to share
it and I'm so grateful that he chose to
share it and listen to what he got that
we as believers can also get God says to
the Apostle Paul know my grace is
sufficient for you my power is made
perfect in your weakness I don't know
about you but Paul is the right person
to talk to us this morning he's the
right person to tell us not to give up
he's the right person to tell us to
trust in God I was sharing this morning
that I had a professor and he taught
pastoral care he was 50 years old at the
time and he had not experienced any
death in his family and this is what he
told us so his parents were alive his
grandparents were alive he had not
experienced any that I don't know about
you but how can you talk to me about
pastor Karen you haven't been through
anything amen but the Apostle Paul if we
go back and we look at chapter 11 he
chronicles some of his hardships for us
he talks about times when he's lived
through threatening situations times
when he endured pain he talks about
physical trial imprisonment beatings
stonings times when he was shipped
wrecked he talks about dangerous rivers
that he had to cross times when he was
faced with robbers he talks about Jewish
and Gentile
persecutions sleepless nights inclement
weather to include times when he didn't
have enough food and water if anybody
could talk to us about hardship I think
it's Paul and so let's take a look at
how Paul handled this situation God says
no my grace is sufficient for you my
power is made perfect in your weakness
notice what Paul says he says therefore
I will boast all the more gladly about
my weaknesses so that Christ's power may
rest on me that is why for Christ's sake
I delight and weaknesses and in insults
and in hardship and in persecutions and
difficulties for when I'm weak then I'm
strong Church I need to tell you I'm not
there
amen can I just be honest with you I'm
not there I don't know that I delight in
my persecutions I'm not content
sometimes when I'm going through the
stones I'll go through the stones but I
can't tell you that I delight in it are
you with me at least I'm honest I don't
want to be up here and act like I'm a
super spiritual hero I'm becoming good
at one day at a time amen he says my
grace is sufficient for you sufficient
grace means enough grace I know about
that that God supplies us with as much
grace as we need for every situation
that we face grace for facing illnesses
grace for facing financial difficulty
grace for our lack of wisdom a lack of
social skills grace for dealing with
rebellious children or aging parents
whatever our need we can rest in the
knowledge that God's grace is sufficient
for everything we lack and for
everything that's lacking and now
somebody ought to say amen everything
that we need God's got it
it may not be everything that we want
but it is everything that we need and I
think that the Apostle Paul was just a
different kind of guy and and he was
just sold out for Christ in ways I hope
to get to but the grace that he's
talking about is absurd listen to it he
did
in hardships insults and persecutions
bring him joy unbelievable and God's
economy the Apostle Paul is saying that
the more grace you need the more grace
you will receive that means sufficient
grace super abundant grace never-ending
grace inexhaustible grace freely given
to each one of us whether you need God
to apply His grace in your life you know
this is the difficult part though it's
okay to serve God when everything is
going well and and you know he's a good
god but sometimes when we are perplexed
is he a good God I mean I think that
this is true for some of us as believers
we've got to grow but when we're going
through something do we see this grace
as the Apostle Paul sees it that His
grace is sufficient for my life do we
even ask for the grace when we're going
through the storms came across this
great story by John MacArthur and he
talks about this man who was poor but he
always wanted to go on a cruise that man
should have called Marilyn Bell and
you've been to a number of cruise I
think you just got back from a cruise he
probably should have called on y'all to
to talk about this cruise but
he's never been on a cruise but he saved
his money and he goes on this cruise but
he was thinking like a poor man and he
said to himself I know that I'm not
going to be able to to eat the lavish
meals that they eat on cruises so I'll
do the next best thing
I'll bring me some peanut butter and
some crackers I'll be fine but when he
got there and he noticed the people
eating these wonderful meals and there
he's eating crackers and peanut butter
it almost became stale to the taste so
he called one of the porters over and he
says hey if you let me eat some of that
food I'll work it off I'll do anything
and the porter says sir don't you know
that everything's included you can eat
as much as you want for as long as you
want it's all included in the ticket I
want to say this to you the body of
Christ that sometimes we act as if God
cannot provide for us that God won't
provide for us that God hasn't provided
for us and it's like eating crackers in
peanut butter but I need you to know
that the price has been paid in full in
advance they men so we don't have to
live like this man I'm not thinking that
he deserved anything we need to
sometimes understand that we are
children of the Most High God that the
windows of heaven can open and God can
pour you out a blessing that you won't
have room to receive how many of you
know what I'm talking about that's
sufficient grace I don't know about
you whether you've ever pondered this
thought of what life would look like
without the grace of God applied to your
life I don't know about you but as I was
thinking about this as I was working on
the sermon I imagined that my moments
would be different but I wouldn't have
the joy that I have without God's grace
applied to my life my life would be
empty broken I would be helpless left in
my trespasses in my sins a life without
God's grace I'd be missing the beautiful
lessons about life I wouldn't smell the
roses I miss out on friendships and
family ship I say family ship because I
have people who are my friends but
they're just like my family anybody know
what I'm talking about
I just miss out a life without grace is
a life without zest without flavor I
to think about this on how good god has
been to me to give me grace when I don't
deserve it and that's what grace is it
is unmerited blessing a life without
God's grace it's unlivable so I'm gonna
give you some homework today that when
you go to lunch I want you to ponder
what life would be like without God's
grace and it won't take long then as you
offer grace over your meal just give God
praise and thanks for sufficient grace
enough grace abundant grace
inexhaustible grace grace unmerited we
don't deserve it but he gives it to us
nonetheless I'm so glad that I've
learned to trust in His grace that even
when we listen to the Psalms the psalm
says psalm three verse five and six
trusts in the Lord with all the heart
lean not into thine own understanding
but in all thy ways acknowledge him he
shall direct our pastor you hear the
grace I came to a point in my life
now I need you to understand that there
was a time that I didn't love myself but
once I invited Christ's in and I began
to love myself I came to understand that
I didn't have to earn his love that
there was nothing that I can do to earn
his love he just loves me now I don't
have to under
stand all of that but he says Derrick I
love you period end of story no comma no
semicolon none of my stuff put into it
he loves you period
no comma no semicolon
that's his grace applied to our lives
let us pray
most gracious God you are indeed an
awesome God you give us grace when we
don't deserve it you care about every
situation that we could ever go through
and we have your promise to be with us
even unto the ends of the age
help us to trust you like the Apostle
Paul who says that in his inadequacies
you show up with power with strength and
that was ever he's lacking you show up
and you make the difference Lord be
patient with us that some of us are not
there but I ask that you grow us up that
we might be your people who can be the
light
our second reading this morning comes
from the book of Luke the second chapter
verses 41 through 52 says now every year
his parents went to Jerusalem from the
festival of the Passover and when he was
twelve years old they went up as usual
for the festival when the festival was
ended and they started to return the boy
Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem but his
parents did not know it assuming that he
was in the group of travelers they went
a day's journey then they started to
look for him among their relatives and
friends when they did not find him they
returned to Jerusalem to search for him
after three days they found him in the
temple sitting among the teachers
listening to them and asking them
questions and all who heard him were
amazed at his understanding and his
answers when his parents saw him they
were astonished and his mother said to
him child why have you treated us like
this look your father and I have been
searching for you in great anxiety he
said to them why were you searching for
me did you not know that I must be in my
father's house but they did not
understand what he said to them then he
went down with them and came to Nazareth
and was obedient to them his mother
treasured all these things in her heart
and Jesus increased in wisdom and in
years and in divine and human favor this
is the word of God for the people of God
let us pray most gracious God I'm a
sinner saved by your grace but I'm
grateful for the gift of salvation but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
probably about two years ago my son
started saying things like Papa I want
to be a preacher just like you and I
would smile because any father would
want their son to sort of follow in
their footsteps but I wanted him to
understand that I can't make you into a
preacher Isaac can tell you that there
are many folks in seminary whose parents
put them in that role but later they
will find that God did not call them and
I don't want that for my son and so I
would say things like son I think it's
good that you want to be a preacher but
you got to talk to God I wanted him to
understand I don't have that kind of
power but that that's God's business and
so I I thought that it was good and it
was a good answer and and maybe we would
talk about it down the road somewhere
but it it kept coming up so a few months
ago we left service and Joshua said Papa
I want to be a preacher just like you in
other words we've had this conversation
Papa and I was about to say my little
Cain answer like I normally say you know
he says and he stopped me he says I know
I got to talk to the Lord about it right
I said that's right son you got to talk
to the Lord about
so while I'm driving he puts his hands
together and he set a prayer and he set
it outloud his prayer was was loud it
was emphatic it was very direct here's
this prayer dear God
I want to be a preacher just like my
papa
make it happen amen but do you know he's
never brought it back up that maybe he
understood doing the father's business
is also listening to the father I want
to challenge your thinking with this
thought being about the father's
business what comes to mind when we
think about being about the father's
business
Isaac I'm gonna I'm gonna ask you that
question if you take the microphone what
does that mean to you when I think about
being about the father's business
God talks about that kingdom come Thy
will be done in earth as it is in heaven
and I think that each one of us has a
purpose and a reason why we are here and
that is because the kingdom of God lives
inside of us and we got to make sure
that I don't care what your gift may be
well this working with missions whether
it's feeding the homeless whether it's
taking care of people that is God's
business and that is the thing that we
should be doing we should be about his
business every day so that's what I
think about when I think about being
about God's business thank you that's a
gift to us Laura I'm gonna call you up
and ask you to take a microphone and
Laura's one of our teachers in our
church and I want to hear what she has
to say so I got a little bit of a notice
on this this morning that he was going
to ask me and I went straight to the
story in Luke where Jesus is pretty much
announcing the beginning of his ministry
in a church
Nazareth and they handed him a scroll
and he started reading from Isaiah the
Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he
has anointed me to preach good news to
the poor he sent me to proclaim release
to the captives and recovering of sight
to the blind to set at liberty those who
are oppressed to proclaim the acceptable
year of the Lord he closed the book gave
it back to the attendant and sat down
and everyone started looking at him
probably whispering back and forth what
is this about and he added today this
scripture has been fulfilled in your
hearing so that was his official
announcement guess what I have come to
fulfill the words of Scripture
that so being about his father's
business is bringing good news to the
oppressed bringing sight to the blind
taking care of people that need to be
taken care of and he reminded us over
and over we are to be doing all the same
things so that is doing our father's
business well I want you to pass that
microphone to bar Beavis
she's another one of our teachers here
in talking about doing God's business it
comes to mind as Isaac said that doing
Scott's business is not a Sunday only
job it's an everyday job
it means constantly being aware of the
fact that we are God's children and
saved by His grace and we are called
upon to do his work on this earth so in
light of that it means being
conscientious of what we're called to do
being open to opportunities as they
arise and being obedient to follow
through as we're directed it also calls
us to be still and to listen for God's
calling for his word for his direction
to fulfill his word in this world thank
you so much being about the father's
business so I want you to listen
Christmas is over now what some of us
have already started putting away
decorations but even as we put them away
now what you see for some of us it was
about our children and our grandchildren
and waking up in the morning and seeing
them wake up with that joy and
excitement as they opened their gifts
but Christmas is over now what when all
of the gifts have been open and there's
nothing under the tree
and what's next for us christmas is
almost anti-climatic meaning that
there's a disappointment at the end of
something extremely exciting christmas
is just like that we prepare for it we
get ready the Advent season we decorate
our homes and preparation for it it's
the big build-up and then it comes and
it leaves us so quickly but what comes
after Christmas is perhaps equally as
important now we have to live out the
Christmas story now we too have to be
about our father's business some of you
if you're like my wife she doesn't want
to take the tree down so we're well into
January and probably going into February
before we can take it down because she
just loves Christmas and she loves all
of the lights some of you are looking
for the next holiday already preparing
taking those decorations down and where
some of you are getting ready for Easter
Easter is not here but you're getting
ready for it Sarah some people in the
choir are already thinking about the
Easter cantata you did so well with
Christmas so the pressure is on get
ready for Easter and so the question
becomes what's next what comes between
the manger in the cross today's service
according to the lectionary is the first
Sunday after Christmas
in this Gospel reading today many of us
are familiar with it because we've heard
it in Sunday school but we get a glimpse
just a glimpse of Jesus childhood that
vibrant seem to tell us much about
Jesus's youth but from this incident we
do know a few things about his childhood
we know that he had devout parents Mary
and Joseph we know that they made this
pilgrimage every year we know that Jesus
is 12 years old and he's making this
pilgrimage next year he will be 13 and
he will have his Bar Mitzvah which is
sort of a rites of passage into
adulthood we know that typically they
traveled in groups probably a community
so the men probably I imagine that the
men traveled together and talk and
converse and were probably leading the
caravan I imagined that the children
would be in the middle but all the
children from the community and then I
imagined the women picking up the rare
and making sure that no one was hurt or
anything like that and so the question
is how did Jesus get lost
Jesus is not lost scripture says he
lingered it didn't say he did not know
where he was that now when you think of
me I married my compass
okay my wife can go somewhere one time
and she never forgets how to go there I
come out of Walmart and I'm like I know
a park I was I think I was right there
and I'm using the clicker anybody
Jesus was not lost scripture says he
lingered but what I want you to
understand as we we listen to the text
was that Jesus was not being mischievous
or disobedient but he was responding to
the Spirit he was acknowledging who he
was destined to become and so there he
says I must be about my father's
business we are told that they were
amazed in the temple to hear him respond
to ask such thought-provoking questions
I imagined that the elders just lavished
in this moment because of how bright
Jesus is but beyond this the scripture
says that he grew in wisdom and stature
and favor with God and with humanity
somehow this is all that we need to know
about his youth but what I really like
about this it says that he was about his
father's business that he was about
spiritual matters
imagine with me Mary and Joseph finally
find him after three days and they
noticed him in the temple but it says
even they were amazed to see him
conversing with the scholars of the
community the educated and to see that
he could listen and respond with
thought-provoking questions now what
they were not ready for was his answer
to them now I could imagine they didn't
know where Jesus was what had happened
were going back we've got to find them
and they find him and when they do Mary
says why have you done this and he says
didn't you know that I should be in my
father's house another translation says
didn't you know that I should be about
my father's business it's said to remind
them you remember we just talked about
these stories of the angel coming to
Mary and saying that she would give
child she would give birth to a child
and it would be a son and the Holy
Spirit would come upon her and he also
spoke to Joseph and told Joseph that the
child that Mary hasn't come from a man
has come from God
you remember these stories and that
Jesus would bring salvation to the world
you see in that moment when he said that
they probably remembered
you see the theologians would say this
is the issue of Christology meaning that
Jesus is fully divine and fully human
but he says I must be about my father's
business he was doing the things that
would please have spa his father he was
concerned about spiritual matters and I
think that this text is fitting for us
because we get so caught up in the gifts
in the lights and the tinsel and all of
these things that we sometimes put the
spiritual on the back burner so what
does it mean to be a spiritual person
dr. Margaret Paul says it like this she
says people often confuse spirituality
with religion religion is what man has
done for God yet Christianity is what
God has done for Humanity people can be
religious and spiritual but it is also
possible to be religious without being
spiritual you can go to church Sunday
after Sunday but does that mean that you
are spiritual perhaps you can practice
meditation but does that mean that you
are spiritual maybe you can belong to a
Christian group of people does that make
you a spiritual person I don't know so
what then is a spiritual
person a spiritual person is synonymous
with being a person whose highest
priority is to serve God with all of
your heart with all of your soul with
all of your strength and with all of
your mind the spiritual person is
connected to God and it's a daily
practice of being kind to other people
it becomes a daily practice of living a
life of gratitude it becomes a daily
practice of doing all you can of doing
the best you can at all times it becomes
a daily practice of serving God and
serving the world I think about Isaac's
statement about living it out every day
on this earth I think about Laura's
Scripture that God has called us to
preach the good news to deliver those
who are in captive to set the prisoners
free to feed the hungry to be there for
the least the loss in the forgotten I
think about Barbie talking about how we
need to live this life on a daily base
how we're to live intentionally as we
serve God imagine with me Mary and
Joseph eventually finding Jesus and that
sense of relief and then they noticed
him conversing with the elders they
notice him being about the father's
business and we get a glimpse of Jesus
at 12 years old
beginning to understand who he is who he
is destined to be do you know who you
are do you know who you are called to be
because knowing who you are knowing
where your strength comes from is half
the battle because it's in knowing who
you are that's where we find the balance
the balance in our lives knowing who we
are that we are a child of the king that
everything that we need God will provide
for us that he will never leave us alone
that he promised to be with us even unto
the ends of the earth and then scripture
says nothing shall separate us from the
love of God which is in Christ Jesus do
you know who you are this morning that's
how I want to go into the new year
knowing who I am Who I belong to I don't
know about you but I'm not going to do
any New Year's resolutions I'm going to
try to get closer to the Lord I don't
know about you but I'm going to continue
to to read devotions I'm going to
continue to read the Word of God I'm
going to do what I can do to try to get
closer to the Lord
author and vos camp she says when
get ready for Christmas it's not about
all of the gifts she says let us prepare
our hearts to receive God anew and I
think that that's what we should be
thinking about as we think about 2019 to
prepare our hearts for the new year to
receive God anew maybe we ought to be
thinking about how much more we can do
to build the kingdom of God right here
on earth to do what we can do in order
to share Christ with another our mission
team has decided to work with New Life
Church and one of the things that the
mission team wants to do is that they
want to put a Bible and every person's
hand so let's say that they have 50
young men who are trying to get their
lives right some have come out of jail
some have been on substance abuse but
many of them have never had their own
Bible and so we want to partner with
them and we want them to have a Study
Bible so that we can teach them how to
fish for life I just think that that's
great to be thinking about for 2019
going into the year sharing with someone
else what I love
this text this morning it says and Jesus
grew in stature and in favor with God
and with humanity in other words he was
growing in grace we don't hear any more
about Jesus until about thirty years old
when he's baptized and so it tells me
that we have to just keep on keeping on
amen
that we have to keep on keeping on that
we have to put one foot in front of the
other that we have to keep on studying
the Word of God keep on doing what God
is calling us to do I think that's what
it means to grow in grace second Peter
chapter 3 verse 18 says it like this but
grow in the grace in the knowledge of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to him
be glory both now and forever it's
talking about maturing in Christ when I
think of that I think about the
sanctifying grace of God the justifying
grace of God that it's a process that we
have to go through grace is God's
unmerited blessings upon our lives we
don't deserve it but he gives it to us
anyhow we ought to go into 219 2019 with
a spirit of gratitude because of the
grace that's been extended to us and
lastly Colossians 3 verse 16 says it
like this let the message of Christ
dwell among you richly as you teach and
admonish one another with all wisdom
through Psalms hymns and songs from the
spirit
singing to God with gratitude in your
hearts that's how we should go into 2019
with singing of the hymns of songs of
reading the Psalms the Word of God and
going into 2019 with the spirit of
gratitude amen
Isaac would you closing my sermon with
the word of prayer let us pray
most gracious and Heavenly Father we
just thank you on today Lord for your
word God and help us to be about your
business not just in every season bar
God but in every day of our lives
every day of their lives that we don't
pass up the opportunity to help that
person that needs help to reach out to
someone God who are struggling to pray
for that person who may be sick god we
thank you right now that you continue to
help us Lord in the areas where we are
weak let us forget about those things in
2019 that that held us back but let
those things go in 2019 Lord we thank
you God as you continue Lord to open our
eyes to the things that you want to
reveal unto us the things that we didn't
do in 2018 that we may do those things
in 2019 the things that we were hesitant
about Lord you said behold I do a new
thing and it is coming forth believe and
trust in the Lord and father we thank
you that we we may do the things that
you have called us to do sometimes we
missed the mark and we actually to
forgive us but lord help us to get up
and wipe ourselves off and continue to
move forward and we thank you for that
prayer that Jesus taught his disciples
to pray when he said our Father who art
in heaven hallowed be thy name
thy kingdom come thy will be done in
earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power the glory
with the S has come forth that we might
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and grateful for the gift of
salvation
I stand Lord to to preach and because of
your grace you've given me back my voice
to do so and I ask that you would hide
me behind the cross that your people
might see you and not me that they might
hear you and not me let the words of my
mouth and the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength in my Redeemer
Fortson Christ's name I pray amen
one of the things that I like to do is I
like to look at the scripture and
different versions so I might read the
NIV New International Version or I might
read the message sometimes I look at the
King James Version or to look at the
version we're looking at this morning
which is the NRSV
New Revised Standard Version but the NIV
I kind of like it and it said it this
way it said that Mary got up and got
ready she got up and she got ready and I
started thinking about the fact that
right after Thanksgiving we start
preparing our minds for Christmas now
let me just give you a demonstration in
my house how it works
the day after Thanksgiving my wife says
you know it's the day after Thanksgiving
right and she's shaking her Hicks so you
can't argue with her and she says and
that means that we need to get our tree
she's looking over the top of her
glasses she's not telling me what to do
but she's being very suggestive anybody
know what I'm talking about
and she says and so you know we got to
go and get the tree so the first thing
that we have to do in my house is we
have to carve out the perfect spot for
the tree so we have to move
plants out we have a table we move out
of the way and this is the perfect spot
for the tree so we go and we carve out
time and we we get the tree and we put
it in that perfect spot make sure it
stands correctly and then I get out of
her way okay because my wife will then
put her perfect hand to that tree and
I'll put our tree up against anybody it
is perfect when it's done and then I
have to carve out time to do the outside
of the house she does the inside I do
the outside of the house anybody know
what I'm talking about and it all gets
done but it's all in preparation for
Christmas but as I was thinking about
that
I wondered if God could bring a
universal indictment against us because
so often we are so caught up in the
seasonal trappings that we forget what
Christmas is really about I'm not saying
I don't want you to receive gifts and
and it gets but I want you to understand
what Christmas is really about and not
to lose that Jesus is the reason for the
season are you with me and so here's my
question as we move through the holidays
with this unbelievable speed will you
stop to give pause and to give God
thanks for all that he's already done in
your life will you take the time as you
are with family friends and neighbors to
share the true meaning of Christmas
days before Christmas and the question
is what will we do Jesus is the reason
for the season so what am I asking I'm
asking that we as the body of Christ
continue to make the Lord a priority now
though walk away and say reven parson
said we're not to give gifts to each
other and that we have to just leave our
stuff on industry because I didn't say
that what I said is that God ought to be
the priority amen are you with me what I
love about thinking about preparing as
we say when do we have time we seem to
make time for the things that we want
hello we make time for our TV shows for
girlfriends and for boyfriends and for
spouse and for a golf and for TV time
and for sports it's a matter of priority
amen let me go back to the text and at
that time Mary got ready and she hurried
to the town of the hill country of Judea
where she entered Zechariah's home and
greeted Elizabeth when Elizabeth heard
Mary's greeting her baby leaped for joy
in her womb and Elizabeth was filled
with the Holy Spirit sort of reminds me
of a quote that I heard of by Ralph
Waldo Emerson
he was an American lecturer a
philosopher a poet of the 18th century
but here's what he said what lies behind
us and what lies before us are small
matters
pair to what lies within us and when we
bring what is within us out into the
world miracles do happen I'm gonna say
it again
what lies behind us and what lies before
us are small matters compared to what
lies within us and when we bring what is
within us out into the world miracles do
happen
it's about what's within that's
important becoming a believer your
background doesn't matter your education
doesn't matter we all need God amen it
doesn't matter to what's going on
spiritually and how God wants to use you
but what lies within it's really what
matters in this text that was read and
in your hearing you're gonna hear about
two women who are really peasants two
women who were sold out for God they
just loved the Lord and want to do God
spitting let me share with you what's
going on in this text God has been
silent for over 400 years he hasn't
spoken through a prophet he hasn't done
a miracle and over 500 years God has
been silent and
what's happened to this little town of
Judea is that there were political
struggles going on and they were
dominated by foreign powers they were
dominated by by Rome and their prayer
and their hope was that the promised
Messiah would come and free them from
all of this oppression that was their
hope now here's our setting I want you
to just imagine with me as we think of
this that that God is doing something
powerful and special in the life of
these two women one is a teenager and he
sends an angel to Mary and he says don't
be afraid you were highly favored the
Holy Spirit would overshadow you and you
will have a son and you are to call him
Jesus and then we know that the angel
came to Zachariah and said don't be
afraid Zechariah is a priest he's well
an age and the angel says your wife who
was barren will have a son and you were
to call him John
so what
lies within us is really important and I
love the book of John to first John 4
verse 4 says it like this you are from
God little children and you have
overcome them because greater is he who
was in you than he who was in the world
greater is He that is in you than he
that is in the world what I love about
that is that it seems to shorten the
distance between us and God
that God is no longer all the way up
there and we're all the way down here it
kind of shortens the distance because
he's in here amen
he's in our hearts he's in here and it
makes all of the difference greater as
he who was in you and me then he who was
in the world and you see this is not for
unbelievers this scripture is truly for
the believer when I was looking at this
text and then it said that after the
baby leaped in Elizabeth's womb she
began to prophesy the Spirit was upon
her and she began to prophesy she began
to give God praise and thanks for what
he had done Who am I that God should do
this for me
sometimes that's how we need to come to
God in humility with a broken spirit and
say Lord I'm just so grateful because I
don't deserve it but I'm so glad that
you do it this is where Elizabeth was
Who am I that God should do this great
thing I was barren well in age and here
my having a baby and the mother of Jesus
talking to me Who am I that I should
experience this we should have the same
aw as we think of the gift of salvation
given to us who are we that God should
die for my sins and for your sins but
that's how much he loves us that he
wants us to do it but I don't want you
to miss the fact that Elizabeth is also
saying God you can do anything remember
the angel comes to Mary he tells her
that she's going to have a baby he tells
her that she's going to have a son and
that she's to name him Jesus without the
aid of a sonogram God God can do
anything and God comes to Zachariah
who's well in age and says you're barren
wife we'll have a child and it's going
to be a boy and you were to name him
John without the aid of a sonogram but
he's God my friends have you have you
ever gone outside and you notice the
moon even in the day anybody ever
experienced that and you think to
yourself how is it that the moon just
hangs there like that now I know some of
you in the room you're scientists and
you're gonna tell me the reason that the
moon could hang up there I'm not that
deep you know what I say because God put
it there
amen and because he's God he can do
anything
God can save a wayward child there some
of you are praying for a wayward brand
child don't give up God can save their
souls God can do
God can do anything if he can take a
knucklehead boy like me off the streets
of Jersey City and clean me up and give
me a purpose he can do anything God can
do he can put a star in the east and
have people follow it God can do he can
use Shepherds to lead and to guide us
and to show us the way God can do but
sometimes we get more praise to the
devil than we do to God we tell people
all my back oh my toe oh my this oh my
that give God some praise hello because
God is good his mercy is everlasting
it goes from generation to generation
and when we look at this
Elizabeth breaks forth in doxology she
just wants to tell folks what God has
done for her what about you do you want
to tell folks what God has done for you
my friends this Christmas tell the true
meaning of Christmas but before you get
to the birth of Jesus you got to talk
about this story you got to tell folks
what he did you got to tell folks that
over 400 years he hadn't even spoken and
now he's going to use these two women to
bring forth his glory Jesus and John the
Baptist
or when you tell the story tell all of
the story don't just tell some of it and
if you can't remember this story then
so
that he gave that whosoever should not
but have what but have what but have
what Amen he loves us that much he loves
us this story is about love and this
story is about a God who can do anything
that's the Christmas story that's what
we should tell people I serve a God who
can do that's where my hope is I pray
that that's where your hope is as we
think of Advent the coming of Christ let
us think about this let us think about
the Christmas story as we tell it and
retell it but as we tell it tell your
children how much God loves them how
much he loves you and that he has a plan
and a purpose for all of it and as God's
plan came into being he would use Mary
and he would use Elizabeth how many know
that serving God is not easy anybody
could you imagine Mary telling people
she's pregnant but she has not been with
a man how that played out
could you imagine Elizabeth telling
people as she's well in age that she's
going to have a baby
I can hear it across the centuries year
right sure you're gonna have a baby
and they went through a lot but God can
use them and God can use us you see
after you open the gifts in the
excitement that's gone what's left but
when you share the Word of God it
continues to feed us it continues to
nourish how spirits are you with me this
morning let us pray
most gracious God we adore you and we
love you and we love the fact that you
had a plan then even when you were
silent all those years there were some
who probably thought that you were dead
that you had given up on humanity but
Lord we know your track record that
you're always up to something good and
so we thank you for sending Jesus into
the world your only-begotten let us
celebrate his birthday let us celebrate
what you have done for us and now let us
pray that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples
[Music]
good morning everything comes from the
Gospel of John chapter 18 verses 33 to
37 then pilate enter the headquarters
again summons Jesus and asked him are
you the King of the Jews jesus answered
do you ask this on your own or did
others tell you about me
Pilate replied I am NOT a Jew am I your
own nation and the chief priests have
handed you over to me what have you done
jesus answered my kingdom is not from
this world if my kingdom were from this
world my follows would be fighting to
keep me from being handed over to the
Jews but as it is my kingdom is not from
here
Pala text him so you are a king jesus
answered you say that I am a king for
this I was born and for this I came into
the world to testify to the truth
everyone who belongs to the truth
listens to my voice may God had a rich
blessing to His Holy Word the Word of
God for the people of God now we would
have a Thanksgiving metally from the
channel choir
and follow the buyers coming whoa that
was loud
while the choir is still coming down I
just want to say a quick word of thanks
you know thinking about all the things
that we have to be grateful for this
week I am so grateful for this choir
they are so faithful every Wednesday to
show up to practices to show up Sunday
rehearse again and I just appreciate
their devotion to sharing their musical
gifts and just for their friendships so
it's been a really special time and I
just want to thank the Chancellor for
all of their dedication
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
amen
I'm gonna talk this morning about Jesus
Christ the king of truth
and I just pray that Lord just removed
me and that his spirit may speak and
that those that have an ear will hear
what the Spirit of the Lord is saying
amen have you ever listened to gossip I
mean just a little bit what did you do
after listening to the gossip I mean
were you upset were you happy or sad
when you heard the gossip hey Ben did
you go and spread the gossip and perhaps
you added a little bit to it to make it
sound in just a little bit juicier yeah
now I can start some gossip up here at
the front row and by the time it gets to
the back row it's a totally different
story I could say little Johnny went out
and broke his arm and had to go to the
hospital and get a cast but by the time
it gets to the back little Johnny not
only broke his arm but he had to get his
arm amputated and now he got a
prosthetic arm that's gossip amen but
did you ever stop the gossip did you
ever confront those who kept the gossip
going now did you ever research the
information until the truth presented
itself amen now if you found the truth
did you spread it around like like you
did the gossip or did you just keep it
to yourself because that gossip has a
way of getting out the gating just
taking off and spreading like wildfire
amen
but the truth is a little bit harder to
get out of the gate because nobody
really wants to hear the truth do it but
that gossip is real juicy so we got we
got to spread that around but do you
know that gossip brings death and
destruction to the one whom the gossip
is about sometimes I wonder if we really
understand
and that when we are in the act of
spreading gossip we are actually
plotting a murder because that gossip is
eating at that person and having a
negative effect on them because it's
really not the truth amen
in our scripture reading today we see
Jesus having a conversation with Pilate
now how did we get to this point well
I'm glad you asked
see there was a lot of gossip going
around about Jesus see what we are
really seeing is religion and government
clashing with each other you see Jesus
who is king of kings and represents
God's divine power and we have Pilate
who is the Roman governor over the
region and he represents Caesar who is
the emperor in Rome
you see Pilate and his soldiers are in
Jerusalem to keep order for the Passover
now Jesus has been brought to Pilate and
Pilate needs to know if Jesus is King of
the Jews because King is a political
term and Pilate is a political person
now if Jesus is a king now that means
that he is guilty of treason because the
emperor in Rome is king over everyone
everywhere including the Jews are you
with me church you see Pilate wants a
clear answer but with Jesus the truth
there is only one clear answer and that
is the truth amen you see Pilate acts to
Jesus now are you the King of the Jews
and Jesus answered him and it said now
do you ask this on your own or did
others tell you about me what is Jesus
doing here that's not the question that
I asked yuji's 'us pallas mine has got
to be
wondering right now I didn't ask you
that Jesus Jesus said do you ask me on
your own are you listening to what other
people are saying about me Jesus is
going right to pilots heart he is asking
Pilate what is it that you believe in
your heart Pilate what is the truth or
are you believing the gossip that
everyone else is spreading about me what
is it that you have in your heart what
is your belief you see one thing that
Jesus understands he understands that
Pilate is a man who has killed people
for no reason he's a man that rules with
an iron fist he is a hard man Jesus has
to be careful here because he knows that
Pilate can call his soldiers and have
him killed right there with the sword
but Jesus knows that he has to get to
the cross to be crucified why so that
the scriptures may be fulfilled for the
Passover amen now Pilate is still
searching for answers
as he really as if he really cared he
asked what is it that you have done
Jesus what have you done that these
people have brought you to me jesus
answered him and said My Kingdom is not
from this world
wait a minute that's not the question
that I asked you again Jesus goes into
something that Pilate has not asked him
but he makes a statement my kingdom is
not from this world if my kingdom were
from this world my followers would be
fighting to keep me from being handed
over to the Jews but see Jesus knew
God's plan for salvation and that plan
involved the sacrifice and Jesus was
that sacrifice amen
Jesus
stated in those few verses without even
saying it that he was a king well how do
you know because you can't have a
kingdom if you are not a king you see
all of the gossip that Pilate had been
hearing came down to this very moment
when the king of truth is standing right
in front of him now I want to share a
story with you this morning a story from
autumn flute er she says I remember it
like it was yesterday
the queasy stomach the tears I fought to
hold back the incredible hurt I felt in
my heart my friend Nick said you know
autumn Lisa and Andrea were just talking
about you I immediately got tense
they said you're a kiss-up that the only
reason you start on the basketball team
is because the coach likes you it's not
because you're so good I thought I might
be sick they said they're tired of you
always getting what you want because you
don't deserve it
you see it was all I could do to hold
back the tears as I sink to my knees on
the cold concrete floor as Nick
continued to tell me everything my
supposed best friend said about me I was
crushed my mind raced I knew I didn't
deserve this but that didn't make it any
easier you see Lisa and Andrea came in
from lunch break acting like nothing had
ever happened Lisa was still my locker
mate Andrea my partner on a history
project I was amazed at their ability to
pretend that we had a perfect friendship
especially since they said such hurtful
things about me
you see she was a freshman in high
school and she said I felt like I didn't
have a friend in the world why
all because of gossip but the Bible
tells us the tongue is our worst enemy
in James three six it says the tongue is
a fire the tongue is placed among our
members as a world of iniquity it stains
the whole body sets on fire the cycle of
nature and is itself set on fire by hell
in the book of Romans Paul includes
gossip among the sins of murder Envy
greed deceit and malice he said those
who do such things deserve death so why
does God despise gossip I'm glad you
asked in the book of Proverbs may give
us the answer you see there's several
verses on the subject in Proverbs 1113
it says a gossip goes about telling
secrets but one who is trustworthy in
spirit keeps a confidence in proverbs 18
8 it says
the words of a gossip are like choice
morsels they go down to a man's
innermost parts amen
now when we say mean things about others
we're inflicting emotional pain on them
instead of punching them in the nose
we're shooting daggers into their hearts
now I don't know but this is probably
what Jesus felt when his disciples
denied him and said I'd never knew the
man I was not with him remember Peter
denied Christ three times
as Christians we're supposed to honor
God in all air
years of our lives talking negatively
about friends or strangers does not show
Christ's unconditional love you see
Pilate had the king of truth standing
right in front of him and he still went
back and forth listening to the gossip
that the Jews were gossiping about amen
you see cuz one thing is once you
release it out of your mouth you can't
take it back it's already like a dagger
in that person's heart so what is truth
I'm glad you have the truth is Jesus
Christ is king he rules with power and
might yes he suffered and was crucified
but he rose so that we may have eternal
life so instead of spreading gossip we
should be spreading the good news that
Jesus Christ is king of truth he said in
life no one comes to the Father except
through me now many people say that
there are many ways in order to get to
God but I only know one way and that's
through Jesus Christ
the king of truth amen
god bless you let us pray Heavenly
Father we thank you this morning for
your word God that we may receive your
word into our hearts into our spirits
and carry it on Lord for the rest of our
lives father that we may silence the
gossip and the naysayers and speak the
truth in love to our friends to our
neighbors father for we thank you and we
love you keep your hand upon each and
every person here Lord we thank you for
your peace and your joy that passes all
understanding we give you all the praise
and glory and all of God's people said
amen
please join me in the prayer that Jesus
taught us to pray our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever
let us pray most gracious God I am so
grateful for the gift of salvation but I
do know that I'm still a broken vessel
but I know all you have to do is say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and to do your will hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me but they
might hear you and not me let the words
of my mouth and the meditations of my
heart be acceptable in thy sight O Lord
my strength in my Redeemer
Fortson Christ's name I pray amen
I'm grateful to be here today and always
grateful that God gives me an
opportunity to speak but I wanted to let
you know what's going on with my voice
and some of you have been praying for me
I went to an ENT Specialists and I have
a growth on my vocal cords they said
that police officers and teachers and
singers get this overtime and so on
November 26
they will do a laryngectomy and remove
it so I was on amoxicillin for 13 days
which was not doing anything but now we
know what it is so I'm grateful for that
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought God answered
prayers God answered prayers but I want
to talk to you a little bit about having
a persistent spirit and an attitude that
keeps our faith strong while we wait for
God to answer how prayers we don't know
how God will answer our prayers
but if we wait we know that the answers
indeed will come sometimes God doesn't
come the way that we want Isaac it says
he may not come when you want him but
he's what
none time that's right he's always on
time so maybe it doesn't happen in the
speedy fashion that we might want but we
know that if we stay patient and if we
wait God will show up in God's timing in
a great way
now I know this is easier said than done
but our prayers are the best we can give
anybody when I dropped my son to school
in the morning to lower my own anxiety
about him being in the care of other
people all day we we say a prayer and
it's the same prayer we say every day I
said lord I want to thank you for great
rest last night and for allowing us to
rise with the joy that only you can give
now I ask that you would be with Joshua
this day bless his judgment bless the
judgment of those who are going to be
with him and Lord anyone who wants to
bring harm his way I pray that you would
send them in another direction
now Lord I ask that your angels would be
with him and that you would bring them
home safe in Jesus name Amen I say that
because I'm limited I can't be with him
every moment of the day I can't be with
him each and every step that he takes
throughout this
used building he's now in in Henrico the
Glenallen high but god's presence can be
within god's spirit can be with him and
God can indeed watch over him listen to
this scripture Colossians 3 verse 16 let
the word of Christ dwell in you richly
teaching and admonishing one another and
all wisdom singing Psalms and hymns and
spiritual songs with thankfulness in
your heart to God what I love about
music is that music can transport us to
a different time and place when I was
growing up my mother was in love with Al
Green some of you may know who Al Green
is are no I'm dating myself but it was a
song love and happiness that Al Green
used to sing and my mother would stand
in the middle of the floor make her
dance face and she cannot sing but she
would come in on the chorus and then she
would say I like that record because
that record would take her to a time and
place one of the hardest things about
having this hoarseness is that I like to
sing and sometimes when I go for walks
and do that I like to sing and God
sometimes will put a song on my heart
that will sing me happy anybody else
sometimes you wake up and he puts a
scripture on your mind and you find
yourself saying it throughout the day
and somehow it can feed you I was
telling Klaus this morning Klaus is a
it's a great chef he's one of our
Usher's here this morning he did the
candle lighting and he makes some some
good food I don't care what he made some
or eat it it's gonna be good
but nothing is more delicious in the
Word of God amen
nothing is more delicious than the Word
of God
I'm reminded of a Christian group called
mercy me and and some of you know them
but they they're known for the song I
can only imagine how many of you've
heard that song now what I found out was
that he wrote that song in ten minutes I
saw the looks on your faces like what he
wrote that song and ten minutes Bart
Millard listen to the lyrics I can only
imagine what it would be like when I
walk by your side I can only imagine
what my eyes will see when your face is
before me I could only imagine
surrounded by your glory what will my
heart feel well I danced before you
Jesus or in awe of you be still when I
stand in your presence to my knees will
I fall will I sing hallelujah will I be
able to sing at all I could only imagine
he said he wrote this song in ten
minutes and they were two or three other
songs word of god speak the hurt in the
healer and he says when he wrote these
songs it was if he was a spectator
watching himself write these songs in
the song of course I can only imagine is
about his dad who died and he was
thinking about the experience of what
his dad was experienced and what it
would be like to see him again
but I share this with you because songs
are so powerful and when we look at the
text that was read and you're hearing
you wonder if this is a prayer coming
from Hanna but I think that it was a
song because it's not a prayer because
Heather's not asking for anything but
it's a song of Thanksgiving giving God
thanks for what he's done in the past
too often we pray for the car and then
when we get the car the novelty wears
off we ask for God to give us the big
house and he gives us the big house and
the novelty wears off we ask God to give
us the new job and when we get the new
job the novelty wears off and we forget
to give God praise and thanks Hanna
remembers Henner is one of the wives of
Elkanah Elkanah and he had two wives the
other wife had children sons and
daughters and yet Hanna was baring and
she wept bitterly the husband didn't
understand why she needed to weep so
because he loved her he showed her love
he was happy with her but what I like
how the scripture put it that Hanna
cried out to the Lord and this is
first point in the text too often when
we go through different things we cry
out to others and not God we get on the
phone and we say girl let me tell you
what he did now we text somebody we
tweet them we Facebook them whatever we
need to do but we cry out to everybody
other than God or what I like about this
is that Hannah cried out to the Lord let
me ask a question when was the last time
you cried out to the Lord to the one
who's truly able to do something about
your situation when was the last time
you cried out to the Lord you know
sometimes Isaac we become so
self-sufficient that we don't think we
need to cry out to the Lord when was the
last time you cried out to the Lord
listen to Hannah's prayer O Lord of
Hosts if you will indeed look on the
affliction of your servant and remember
me and not forget your servant but will
give to your servant a son and I will
give him back to you Lord all the days
of his life and no razor will touch his
head
hannah said a prayer out loud Eli the
priest was in the temple he saw her
mouth moving and he thought that she was
intoxicated that she had been drinking
if she says no just crying out to the
Lord he says tell me about it and she
told a lie about her request and eli
prayed that God would grant her her
request and he told her to go in peace
what I like about this text it is my
second point scripture says that Hannah
didn't fast anymore because she believed
when you pray are you praying for the
sake of praying are you praying
believing that God indeed can and will
answer your prayer Hannah believed in
the power of prayer and she trusted that
God would remember her she understood
the principle of prayer that God
responds to his people through prayer
that God reveals himself to us through
prayer that God and parts understanding
and he gives peace through prayer she
understood
that God even gives us the power to
resist temptation through prayer and
that all things are possible through
somebody been to Sunday School praise
the Lord
why pray if we're not going to trust and
believe that God can and that God will
scripture says that not long after that
she delivered Samuel and when Samuel was
old enough to be weaned she took him
back to the temple kept her promise to
the Lord took him back to the temple Eli
had forgotten it I said what well I told
you that when I had the child I would
bring him back to you it says oh okay
how many of you keep your promises you
know we prayed that prayer I don't know
about you but I prayed that prayer Lord
if you get me out of this one
anybody able pray that prayer the
question is have we kept our promise
what I love about this is she says my
heart rejoices this is the evidence of
answered prayer if I were to go around
the room and I want to talk to you many
of you can tell me about a time in your
life when God answered your prayer so
here's your homework I said would you do
me a favor would you come down and hold
up this model notebook for me I want you
to get yourself a little notebook
doesn't have to be expensive
let it be your journal and what I want
you to do is I want you to write down
your prayers but more importantly
I want you to journal when God answers
your prayers amen so that's your
homework because God is faithful we have
in our home what we call a time castle
we put in a box special events birthdays
even funeral bulletins things that have
happened and one of the things I came
across and looking at it the other day
was my wife wrote a note to the God
thanking God for my son's life at five
months old his heart was double the size
and it was a difficult time we didn't
know he was going through something like
congestive heart failure at five months
old and we were concerned whether we
were gonna have to have open-heart
surgery but it was a time that I found
it difficult to pray I had no words and
somebody prayed with me another pastor
showed up and he prayed with me it's
almost like every day a pastor would
show up and pray for anybody ever needed
prayer somebody to pray with you at
least I'm honest and Hannah needed
somebody to pray with her but God showed
up in a great way my friends there are
countless stories where God shows up
regarde heals people from diseases where
repentance is offered forgiveness
granted relationships restored hungry
people fed lives that are changed souls
that are saved through the power of
prayer James 5 and 16 says that the
prayer of the righteous is powerful and
effective and it avails much John 15 and
even says Jesus taught his disciples
that if you remain in me and my words
remain in you ask whatever you wish and
it will be done for you first John 3
verse 22 Eccles this truth saying that
those who receive from him anything that
we ask because we keep his Commandments
and we do what pleases him scripture is
replete with stories of answered prayer
my friends God is faithful he won't fail
us it may not come when we want or God
will indeed be on time now I know that
some of you are asking the question well
are there any reasons where our prayers
might be unanswered reasons for
unanswered prayer I'm glad you asked
I think I have a few suggestions psalm
66 verse 18 says if I regard wickedness
in my heart the Lord will not hear me so
it's kind of hard to serve two masters
the Bible says that if we have an art
against our brother or our 6/3 we ought
to go and fix it and then bring our
offering to God if there's something in
there that's not right then we need to
make it right first John 5 and 15 says
anything we ask with our obedience to
God's commands James note that what you
ask and do not doubt you will receive
but be careful don't ask with the wrong
motives so
sometimes our prayers are not answered
because there's things going on inside
of us maybe sins that we need to confess
things that we need to lay at the altar
before we pray and ask God to do it or
sometimes we ask what the wrong
motivation well God
Isaac is bigger than me and and he is
pushing me around can you can you break
his legs with me God can you that's the
wrong prayer right God is not gonna
answer that but sometimes our motives
are wrong and then lastly a lack of
faith there's two places in the
scriptures that says Jesus was amazed he
was amazed at the faith of the Satori
who said you don't even need to come
just say the word and I know it will be
done
scripture says Jesus was amazed at great
faith and then it says he was amazed at
the lack of faith of the people of
Israel so those are the three reasons
I'm not sure that there are all the
reasons but three reasons why sometimes
our prayers go on answer would you touch
your neighbor and say faith is necessary
just it's okay
faith is necessary faith is the
substance of things hoped for the
evidence of things not seen and the
Bible says that it's impossible to
please God without it why pray if you
don't believe why pray if you don't have
the faith to believe that God can and
that God will
is what I want to ask you know Isaac
sometimes people in the church will say
things like this to me well you know
pastor I'm old now and I've served on
all of these committees and and don't
ask me to do that but let me ask you
this can you pray well pastor I come to
church I pray my times I and and I'll
given offer it but don't ask me to do
anything can you pray can you pray for
the success of Providence hello anybody
can you pray that's something that we
can all do as the body of Christ I came
across this pot by Rick Warren and he
was asking the same question are we
prayer warriors are we servants of God
and then he says this so I need you to
lean and just lean in which just leaning
so that you can hear what he's saying
he says faithful servants never retire
amen oh my
you can retire from your career from
your job but you will never retire
from serving God through prayer can you
pray will you pray for the success of
this church what I like about Hannah's
prayer is that it turns in the song that
they began to sing from generation to
generation from generation to generation
Sarah I'm going to ask you to come up
and play my favorite song but I want you
to think about it and Isaac I want you
to take the mic right where you are and
as she as she sings I mean as she plays
I want you to pray not sing pray that's
not like you
[Music]
Lord we think you on today thank you for
your love everlasting
[Music]
that you always feel thank you for your
grace and your mercy thank you God for
always being there for always walking
with us thank you Lord for being a
fortress for us even in the midst of our
situations and circumstances even in the
midst of the times when when we mess up
and we don't think that you're there
thank you for our loved ones that we
will miss during this season thank you
for giving us comfort and peace knowing
that they are in a better place knowing
that they are not hurting anymore
there's no more sickness there's no more
pain only your love that abides in us
thank you for the joy of their life that
they have had that we were able to share
with them help us Lord to see you in
every aspect of our lives not just in
the good times but even in the times of
struggle thank you Lord that we're no
longer bound we're no longer caught up
the Lord we are free by your grace
no more trouble no more pain we thank
you on today thank you God for
everything that you do thank you for
hearing us we thank you Lord for
sustaining us for your love in Jesus
name Jesus taught his disciples
our Father what happened I will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who trust
let us pray
most gracious God we is so grateful for
this day so grateful for your love and
your tender mercy father I ask that you
would have your way this day that you
would hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
today is also stewardship Sunday but I
wanted to preach a message not on giving
forgiving sake but I wanted to talk
about our relationship with God and
that's why we ought to to give we have a
great stewardship committee and we've
been working hard behind the scenes
we've been reading a book entitled not
my parents offering plate and it's
helped us to think about how we wanted
to comment this and so I want you to
just open your spirit to listen in a
different way to experience God anew
Noble in his article three questions to
help determine your church's spiritual
health he says that in our increasingly
result-oriented world it's easy for the
church to apply these organizational
health measurements to the church just
as we do in the world and we would start
with something like is the giving up we
ask that question is our giving up is
the attendance moving in the right
direction how does our budget look are
we adding new programs or are we taking
away programs not bad but if we taught
want to talk about attendance that might
be an indicator of health we wanted to
talk about increase giving that might be
an indicator if we wanted to talk about
expanding the budget that might be a
good indicator but these measurements
tend to focus more on the nuts and bolts
of the church and not so much on the
spiritual aspect of the church so the
questions spiritually might be different
are we telling others about who Jesus is
I think that that's a sign of health
some churches have ministries around the
globe while others are more focused on
their communities but regardless are we
sharing Christ with the world you see a
healthy church is eager to share the
love of Christ
with others and so it begs the question
are we sharing Christ with those who
don't come to church do we have some
kind of influence with them are we
helping to put people on the right path
I think that's a significant question
for us
I guess the greater question is are we
having an impact in our community if we
were to close the doors of Providence
would it matter in the earliest service
a number of people said oh yes it would
matter
do we have presence in our community and
are we making a difference and then is
[Music]
let me ask this question are we growing
as the body of Christ are we growing as
the body of Christ you know we can grow
old in the church but that doesn't mean
that we're growing in Christ as two
different things are you with me this
morning so the question is are we
growing in Christ can we look at your
life in the years that you have spent in
the church and we can see growth maybe
through patience and learning to wait on
God we can see your growth maybe it's
growing your growing interest in
discipleship that we can see your growth
maybe it's in your desire to serve when
you've been sitting on the sidelines
and now you have a great desire to serve
I think these are not just questions to
talk about the sign of health but then
the reasons why I would give to a church
some of some people say I don't give to
the church because I don't want my money
to go to the pastor let me help you this
is the United Methodist Church your
money does not go to me as a pastor can
I get a witness and some people say well
I don't give because I don't know where
the money's going when I give and one of
the things about the United Methodist
Church as we have full transparency
about where our money goes but let me
ask a question what about your
relationship with God what about giving
because God has been faithful to you
he's been faithful to your family and
what I love about the text today is that
it's going to ask that question to the
people of Israel so Isaac come and take
the mic why do you give to the church
personally I give to the church because
God first gave to us his son Jesus
Christ and the church is the body of
Christ and because God loves us so much
shouldn't we do unto others as we will
want them to do unto us Bobby why do you
give to the church Gary and I give to
the church because it is our faith
response to God's love the need is so
great and we've been blessed so
abundantly what we have is not ours
we're just stewards of it for a while
amen Robin Harris why do you give to the
church I give it a church because excuse
me because I am called of God to in his
ministry and I have received from him
His grace greater than I can imagine
and I give in all ways that I can to
spread that word amen
I got one more Althea I'm coming to you
I know you know I'm coming okay why do
you give to the church I give to the
church because of God's gift to me when
there were times when I didn't know
where things were going to be how things
were going to be but he opened up his
arms and he gave and I'm blessed or why
did you give to the church because this
church is my family and they give me
support when I need it laughs when I
need it just everything and of course
because I think so much as I've been
blessed so very very much so the least I
can do is give some back Tony why do you
give to the church well Julie and I give
to the church for a number of reasons
but I think the one that stands out for
me is that every time we get a new
member into the church every time we
have an infant baptism every time
something significant happens to the
church we go to the hymnal and pledge
that we're going to support this church
with our prayers our presence gifts our
service and our witness and just trying
to live that out in our lives
amen thank you I want a child to hear
why people give because I want you to
think about that in this text this
morning is a powerful text that God
brings this claim against the people of
Israel and God says you know what the
mountains will be my jury the creation
will be my jury
unfaithful to you as a people I've been
faithful to you what happened to us what
happened to our relationship don't worry
that's right on cue when I said God then
the phone went off so that's God but God
is that what happened
haven't I been faithful I brought you
out of the land of Egypt I've given you
great leaders like Moses and Aaron and
Miriam and yet what have you given me
back lip service about what you're going
to do lip service and God says what
happened to us
what happened to our relationship
because that's what it's about it's
about a relationship some of us we can
hold on to the dollar so hard that
George Washington is hollering this
morning let it go God has blessed us
he continues to bless us in many many
ways how many of you know when you got
your health and strength you got
everything anybody this text is powerful
seems to be this cosmic argument and God
it's is putting it in a framework that
we can understand but if you notice in
the text the people of Israel have
become arrogant and when the prophet
Micah comes to them and he says God is
bringing an indictment against you you
know what they said they
okay what do we need to do to get God
off our back we need to get some more
burnt burnt offerings another Rama lamb
what is it gonna take to get God off our
backs Ted our first firstborn with that
would that work do you hear that
spiritual attitude sometimes we like
that in the church we say things like
look I'm gonna give my offering I don't
tithe but I'm gonna give my offering but
don't ask me for nothing else do you I
hear the spiritual attitude now I come
to church I punched my I punched my card
I've been at the church but don't ask me
to serve on no committees do you hear
the spiritual attitude anybody and I
know some of you saying oh none you
stepping on my feet but if I'm stepping
on your feet then move your feet amen my
friends God wants a relationship with us
He loves us and he's so desirous in
having that relationship look at the Old
Testament look at the New Testament and
God finds ways to be in relationship
with us because he's a loving God and
what I love about this text is that
Micah says don't just try to appease God
give him your heart serve him from your
heart with all of your mind with all of
your soul
serve God with your heart for all of
your heart and then that famous part
what does the Lord require of thee but
to do justly to love mercy and to walk
humbly with that God when we do justly
it means that we stand up for those who
can't stand up for themselves it means
that we become the voice for those who
are voiceless maybe children maybe
elderly but as the body of Christ we
said that we're gonna stand
and be there for Tony would you come and
share with us what you've been doing and
how you've been serving in that capacity
if you take one of the microphones good
morning
about a year ago I was fortunate enough
to have worked long enough to be able to
retire and I was very happy about that
but at the same time a little nervous
about how I was going to spend all that
free time well it didn't take long for
me to recognize there was plenty for me
to do around the house and to help out
some other people but I really wanted to
find something to do and because God
hadn't just dumped something in my lap
at the time I decided I was going to go
to a job fair a really big one not
looking for anything difficult to do
just something to keep busy
something to get up in the morning and
to get done and at that job fair I
visited there were over a hundred
companies there I visited a whole bunch
of them hoping that they'd give me the
opportunity to drive a package around or
to pick up something here and take it
somewhere else which was what I thought
I was looking for and at the job fair I
stopped and was kind of going through my
notes and checking off this box in that
box and writing down some things about
who I visited and who I might be
interested with and behind me was a
table that was from an agency that most
of you would recognize the name and
there was nobody there so I walked over
and just said hey how you doing don't
see anybody here and struck up a
conversation with the gentleman there
well it turns out that this agency has
on their property their custody of
somewhere between 50 and 70 young people
between the ages of 12 and 17 who have
come from difficult lives many of them
have issues of their own but most of
their issues were not because of
anything that they cost and they've been
taken out of their current working
environment our current living
environment and they now stay at this
agency and after I didn't know that at
the time but as
was carrying on the conversation with
this guy he says you know what I think
I've got a job for you
and I said well you don't even know you
know what I'm looking for and he said
yeah but I think I got a job for you so
it wasn't long before I became a
transportation mentor at this
organization and my job my job is to
drive safely
these children from the agency to visit
doctors to visit dentists to go to the
health department to get shots to go
visit a counselor to go visit a
psychiatrist to go see their attorney to
go visit some of their friends and
neighbors that they have permission to
see that's what my job is is to take
them there and to do and get them back
safely but I used the opportunity from
the time that I pick them up until they
get into the hands of someone who is
taking care of whatever their business
is to connect with them and to have a
conversation with them and to create an
environment for them that is not
threatening that is not difficult for
them to be in that is comfortable and a
place where they like to be and God gave
me that opportunity he laid it right out
in front of me I had no idea I didn't
see it coming
and I wouldn't trade that for anything
at this point I really enjoy it and then
we think think of acts of mercy or mercy
and motion let's watch our video well
Providence's the greatest people on
earth as everybody knows chasm I think
does a good job we were taking food to
South Minster and I found out that it
wasn't just someone showing up and say I
need food but chasm had to approve those
people give them a number and give them
a time and a pain tree to go to and they
caused the pain tree and told them what
to expect so it was all checked out
I know there are a lot of people out
here that need food I wanted to work
with someone that really tried to help
those who tried to help themselves
Providence has been involved 12 13 years
we keep asking our people for more and
more in some way they keep coming
through and they always do what we ask
them to do and they try to do more I
think most of the time but these food
baskets will help these people to have a
good Thanksgiving dinner and the gift
card will help them to have turkey to go
with that dinner I would say I think
about the little children that they did
know wrong and sometimes their parents
are the ones that have done the wrong
but the children need help to do justly
to love mercy and to walk humbly with
our God Jolie would you come and share
your testimony with us
good morning I was asked to share a
testimony with you all and four days I
thought of the profound things I might
say to you but the truth is I lost a lot
of what I might say laying asleep at
night thinking about that what I want to
say here and now is a far cry from those
deep thoughts that I wanted to express
but everything I'm about to tell you
came straight from my heart I want to
tell you what my faith looks like today
my relationship with God and what this
church means to me however in order to
do that effectively I have to share with
you the most important relationship my
earthly relationship that of my mother
there's a William Makepeace Thackeray
quote that I've always liked which says
mother is the word for God on the lips
and hearts of children for most of my
childhood my mother was exactly that I
grew up in a household that was
religiously split so we did not attend
church when I became old enough to ask
questions
my mom was truthful yet concise I
remember the registrar of my elementary
school asking my mom what religion we
were when I enrolled my mother said only
Protestant so for years I thought that
that was our denomination after my
father suffered a fatal heart attack
when I was 13 my mom and I grieved
separately and I began to ask questions
about God that perhaps she didn't want
to answer at that time I started asking
friends if I might accompany them to
their churches so for the next few years
I visited quite a lot of Baptist
churches Catholic churches
non-denominational churches Churches of
Christ and even a spiritualist Church
nothing gave me the feeling that I was
home that I belonged there or that I
might find the answers that I was
looking for that is until I was asked to
come to the Methodist youth group one
Sunday night during my junior year of
high school
it was a place that I got excited about
every week even though in the beginning
I only attended the youth group and not
the services however I just knew that
was where I belonged over the years I
have belonged to a number of Methodist
churches across some states but I've not
always been a faithful parishioner until
joining skip with United Methodist on
the west end with skip with I was able
to go to a mission trip to Cambodia and
to Singapore but as one of the youngest
members of the church I felt a distance
between myself and some of the other
parishioners
after moving to Chesterfield I decided
that I needed a church closer to home
knowing my internal radar was pretty
accurate I trusted that search I tried
out some other area Methodist churches
but nothing felt good until I got here
and met Marybeth I wanted to jump in
unencumbered and I joined almost right
away
however life had another plan for me I
met the man who would become my second
husband and we quickly began building a
relationship and a life together
I forgot what Sunday was for I forgot
what my heart told me to do that my real
desire was not an earthly relationship
but it was my hunger for God sadly I
stifled the burgeoning relationship I
had with Providence and I dove headfirst
into a marriage with this man who by the
way did not have a relationship with God
and didn't have a faith that he lived by
I kept thinking to myself I can help him
maybe this is what God wants me to do to
bring him to Jesus to let him hear the
message the years went painfully by and
I was no closer to bringing my alcoholic
husband nearer to Christ what happened
though is what God wanted of me all
along I'm certain and of course it had
to do with my mother
you see over the years mom's
relationship with God become had to be
rock solid my siblings and I used to
joke that if you had a prayer request
give it to mom because she had her
direct line to God mom seemed to live
life in the spirits presence she loved
everyone and everyone loved her she
didn't see race or color or any other
differences but she loved with her whole
heart her whole being she was diagnosed
with emphysema in 2000 and she did
pretty well with it by taking care of
herself up until her first
hospitalization in 2006 the
pulmonologist gave her an oxygen
prescription but mom scoffed and would
only use it if we were leaving the house
and even then it was usually left in the
backseat of the car she went into the
hospital about every 12 to 18 months
every time she was released her lung
capacity diminished more and more she
had to resign from her beloved cafeteria
job at robia Smid 'el school in 2015
because every time a new bug went around
she would get sick and end up in the
hospital over time she was able to do
less and less and she was completely
dependent on her oxygen the last couple
years of her life she moved in with my
husband and I and from that vantage
point she was able to see the shambles
that my marriage really was however
never wanting to interfere she saved her
observations for me when in private and
I shared my frustrations with her mom
went into hospice care and ER in July
2017 after leaving cjw for the last time
the chain of events which followed can
only be described as divine my husband
had a stroke in August a small one but
significant enough that he was in cjw
for a week when he was released however
he went and recuperated at his brother's
house instead of coming home because it
was too busy for him to rest what with
all of the hospice nurses and my sisters
coming in and out of the house so at
night it was
mom and I she would call out to me in
the night a lot for breathing treatments
or to use the bathroom or any other
thing that she needed I was her constant
caregiver I only slept in our increments
I tried to get as much time with her as
possible
she needed around-the-clock medication
and morphine and I took care of her as
best I could I counted it as my honor
and my blessing and privileged to do so
people always told me it would be such a
gift from God to wake up and find that
she had passed quietly in her sleep but
selfishly I always dismissed that and
said that my personal wish was to be
with her holding her hand when she went
my mom gave me so much she was a
stay-at-home mother for many years and
sacrificed so much of herself to me and
my siblings especially after my father
passed and it was just she and I she
made the best of things with the world's
most smart aleck II kid that she
jokingly said only a mother could love
she mothered all of my friends and took
care of each of us differently to my
lifelong friends she was mom and most of
them have traveled across the states to
be with me since her passing she was the
gentlest touch and the softest voice and
the warmest heart and her absences felt
in my life
every day I was with her when she took
her last breath in the pre-dawn hours of
September 26 last year so I got my wish
my husband and his family sat right here
with me during her memorial service that
Derek presided over in this church so
that I loved and then five days later he
left me the part that hurt the most was
not having mom to talk it out with and
having to live in a house that felt very
much like a tomb so in November I
started the process of looking for my
own home and at 47 years of age I became
a homeowner for the first time
September in October last year had been
terribly difficult and then in December
the last relative that I had on the East
Coast my oldest sister decided to move
to Hawaii and she did and left me here
by myself which I wish were the best so
to say that the last half of last year
was earth-shattering would be an
understatement but the thing that got me
through it all was this church Derick
and others put themselves in my path
over and over again and whenever I
needed anything it was this church this
congregation that reached out to me I
have never in my life been a part of a
church that did anything like that and
I've been humbled beyond belief my
Sunday School class the UMW
the Bible studies this fellowship this
actual building this is where my heart
is this is where my home is
my greatest desire is to help this
church attendance this congregation grow
so that other people might feel the same
love the same acceptance compassion and
belonging that I feel every time I walk
in this building I told God that if he
would help me find a house close to
Providence I would do whatever the
church asked God heard me and he found a
home within walking distance right down
the street how great is that how great
is our God what other proof does does
anyone need I am without the person I
loved most in this life alone facing all
of life's tests by myself but I'm not
really alone God is always with me in
each one of you and in my heart it took
me coming home to Providence to realize
that thank you
[Applause]
that's why we should give because here
at Providence we follow that to do
justly to love mercy and to walk humbly
with our God I give because God has been
so good to me and when I think about
what he's done for me that's the least
that I can do it's give giving us a
reflection of my heart giving is a
reflection of my priority as a believer
Isaac would you come and close us in
prayer let us pray
although we just think you want today
for your word and God as we go about our
everyday lives Lord continue to lead us
and continue to guide us help us Lord to
not only give monetarily Lord but give
of ourselves to those Lord that we do
not know that we may meet on a daily
basis Lord the people that you bring in
our paths help us to respond
likewise Lord father we know that you
can do all things God and everything is
in your hands father we thank you for
our veterans today Lord those who have
given their lives Lord so that we may
live in a free country we actually do
continue to bless their families Lord
continue to watch over them as only you
can and father we thank you for that
prayer that you gave your disciples to
pray when you said our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven
[Music]
we seated our reading comes from the
Gospel of Luke chapter 6 verses 20 to 31
then he looked up at his disciples and
said blessed are you who are poor for
yours is the kingdom of God blessed are
you who are hungry now for you will be
filled blessed are you who weep now for
you will laugh blessed are you when
people hate you when they exclude you
revile you and defame you on account of
the Son of Man rejoice in that day and
leap for joy for surely your reward is
great in heaven for that is what their
ancestors did to the prophets but woe to
you who are rich for you have received
your consolation woe to you who are full
now for you will be hungry woe to you
who are laughing now for you will mourn
and weep Walter you will all speak well
of you for that is what their ancestors
did to the false prophets love your
enemies but I say to you that listen
love your enemies do good to those who
hate you bless those who curse you and
pray for those who abuse you if anyone
strikes you on the cheek offer the other
also and from anyone who takes away your
coat do not withhold even your shirt
give to everyone who bakes from you and
if anyone takes away your goods do not
ask for them again
do to others as you would have them do
unto you
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading
the hearing of God's Holy Word made sink
deep down and bring forth much fruit the
Word of God for the people of God thank
you for that reading Reverend parson a
message today is what is a saint we see
in this chapter of Luke a version of the
Beatitudes sort of like the ones that
are in Matthew chapter 5 when Jesus is
Sermon on the Mount now I want you to
imagine if you will what type of
Beatitudes would we have for the 21st
century what if we made a list of all of
the people that we think are successful
who seemed to have it made according to
today's standards they may look
something like this blessed are the rich
and famous because they can always get
the best seats at a restaurant blessed
are the beautiful people because they
shall be on the cover of Vogue or
Cosmopolitan magazine blessed are those
who entertain because they know how to
have fun
hmm say blessed are the movers and
shakers because they shall make a name
for themselves blessed are the healthy
and physically fit because they don't
mind being seen in a bathing suit
blessed are those who make it to the top
of their profession because they get to
look down on everyone else you see the
day we observe All Saints Day a day when
we remember and celebrate all the saints
who have gone before us when we hear the
word Saint what comes to mind think
about that for a moment I would say we
think about people like Ghandi like
Mother Teresa
you see but the qualifications of a
saint has nothing to do with whether or
not you let a great movement or you
wrote a best-seller amen
are the rich and powerful the pro
athletes the movie stars more of a saint
than just every hard-working everyday
people I think not so my question is
what is the same the answer to that
question is what I want us to look at
this morning from our scripture reading
see one of the problems that we have
with American society today is that we
worship celebrities we worship pro
athletes as if they were Saints that's
why I wrote a list of 21st century
Beatitudes and that's why they sound the
way that they do we see the rich and the
powerful the good-looking the athletic
and we think that they have the greatest
lives ever that it can't get any better
than that
but I'm here to tell you that there are
a lot of rich and powerful people who
have a lot of money but they don't have
Jesus and they are miserable amen stay
with me Church but at the same time
there are a lot of hard-working everyday
people who may not have a lot of money
but they have Jesus and they're a whole
lot richer than some of those rich
people amen cause my god those were all
the gold and the silver is buried amen
and if it belongs to him it belongs to
me are you with me when we look at Jesus
sermon on the plains that tells us a
different story we say blessed are the
rich and famous because they always get
the best seats at the restaurant but
Jesus says woe to the rich for they have
received their consolation amen we say
blessed are those who make it to the top
of their profession
because they get to look down on
everyone else but Jesus says woe to you
when you when they speak well of you for
that is what they did to their ancestors
the false prophets
we have fooled ourselves into believing
a false truth that the good life is
something that we can build for
ourselves in this life with money and
fame you see our problem is that we look
for Saints in the high society places
and what we miss is the fact that the
real Saints are standing right in front
of us they're sitting right next to you
this morning they are the people that we
interact with every day you see there
are people who are struggling in the
trenches and barely getting by they are
the ones who are generous to a fault
sometimes they are the ones whose lives
we look at and think man they really got
a bad deal in life yet they are the ones
who continue to glorify God's greatness
even in the midst of their tragedies
when they lose a loved one there have
been many that have loved and lost but
they are still many Saints among us
today I want to tell you a story about a
man named Shane Claybourne he's the
founder of a major homeless ministry in
Philadelphia he calls his ministry the
simple way he tells the story of the
counter he had with a young homeless
girl
Shane recalls one day when he and his
colleagues were building relationships
and some of the not so pleasant bad
parts of Philadelphia if you ever been
in Philadelphia you know what I'm saying
he says they met a little seven-year-old
girl who was homeless and he asked her
what she wanted to do when she grew up
what is it that you want to do
she paused for a moment and said I want
to own a grocery store now we say Nestor
well why is it that you want to own a
grocery store the little girl said so I
can give out food to all the hungry
people mmm now that little girl is the
same she isn't worried about getting
riches for herself she just wants to
give herself to others Jesus did not
come here to be served he came to serve
he sacrificed himself for us do you know
anyone like that I think we all do he
said blessed are the poor the hungry you
who weep the Saints are those who don't
look down on the poor and hungry but
give them whatever they have to help
them because most people are not looking
for a handout they're just looking for a
hand up amen
stay with me church Saints are the
people who commit their whole lives to
follow in Jesus they love the way that
Jesus loved coz he loved unconditionally
see sometimes we put conditions on love
if you I love you if you give me this I
love you if you do this for me but see
there is no conditions on love according
to Jesus they show mercy and compassion
the way that Jesus did they sacrificed
the way that Jesus sacrificed amen so I
say to you today church love your
enemies do good to those who hate you
bless those who curse you pray for those
who mistreat you and if someone slaps
you on one cheek turn to them the other
also if someone takes your coat do not
withhold your shirt from them now I
gotta tell you back when I was starting
out studying the Bible I had a problem
with a few of these
wait a minute am I the only one I had a
problem with somebody's God had to
deliver me I don't know about that turn
the other cheek yet let me help you with
that eyes thank you Laurie give to
everyone who asked you and if anyone
takes what belongs to you did not demand
it back do to others as you would have
them to do unto you
you see our society that gives us one
message about what it means to live a
wonderful life and be blessed but Jesus
tells us something totally different he
turns the tables on the world's way of
doing things we can seek a life of
fulfillment that follows the path of the
world or we can make more and be more
like that little girl who wants to own a
grocery store there really are people
who give generously to others you say
how do you know Isaac because there are
something right here in this church you
see you are the Saints of today we have
to leave a legacy for those who are
coming behind us but we also have to
follow those who have gone before us
amen god bless you
let us pray most gracious God we thank
you for the great message in which you
have given us today we thank you for the
saints that have gone before us and even
as our Senate I know that their names
and faces that enter into the minds of
us sitting right here but you've been so
good to us Lord to give us the gift of
each other
and for those who've taught us how to
live the faith so we say thank you and
we say thank you and we say thank you
and our men the names of those who have
gone before us in your here Bell and
we'll just take a moment to honor them
by lighting a candle Lewis Miller
sue pickerel Louise Verger joy Kieran's
her Maloof leaner
Gladys man
Allen mentor
Irma Robbins mark Bookman Beverly seal
Boyd gurney fan Fran Fitch Gil Bowman
Margaret Trexler James Jenkins and Susan
Worrell
and let us take just a moment to
remember the names of those that we have
not mentioned but our own loved ones our
own family and friends let us have a
moment of silence together
Italian sherry if you become
a second reading this morning is from
the book of Mark chapter 10 verses 46
through 52 they came to Jericho as he
and his disciples and a large crowd were
leaving Jericho Bartimaeus son of
Timaeus a blind beggar was sitting by
the roadside when he heard that it was
Jesus of Nazareth he began to shout out
and say Jesus son of David have mercy on
me
many sternly ordered him to be quiet but
he cried out even more loudly son of
David have mercy on me
Jesus Stood Still and said call him here
and they called the blind man saying to
him take heart get up he is calling you
so throwing away his cloak he sprang up
and came to Jesus then jesus said to him
what do you want me to do for you the
blind man said to him my teacher let me
see again jesus said to him go your
faith has made you well immediately he
regained his sight and followed him on
the way this is the word of God for the
people of God
opportunity to just thank the choir as
they come down and also special thank
you to Laura for playing her flute with
us today it's always such a pleasure to
have another instrument accompany the
choir and so I really appreciate her
sharing her gifts with us this morning
[Music]
[Applause]
let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace but I am
grateful for the gift of salvation but
Lord I'm still a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
one of my favorite times here at
Providence is in the summer it's when we
do our program called cap creative arts
program and what that is it's like
Vacation Bible School
but it's our own it's not a can product
and what I mean by that is we're not
doing what every other church is doing
and there's a team that gets together
and they pray and they discern where God
is leading us and so that's what they
offer but what I love about it it's a
time of the year where the fellowship is
absolutely amazing the teamwork and the
opportunity to share the Bible stories
and the Bible stories are life
transforming stories it's a time when we
are truly an intergenerational Church
where we're working
together seniors adults young adults
teens and children we come together to
work together to learn together to
invest in the lives of others Laura who
just played the flute is one of our
teachers and she is an exceptional
person but what I love about her she is
she has the gift of storytelling and she
will get those kids together and she
will share with them the Bible stories
and they come alive they act the parts
out and do all sorts of things and it's
amazing for our children then we have
Kristi Willis and call a wound who are
gifted musically and they tell the story
through music and they get our kids
together and get them all excited and if
you're here to see the energy in the
room is absolutely amazing and it
happens right here at Providence and
then we have Sean Collins who's our
Michelangelo of Providence he gets our
kids together with love and with this
imagination he inspires them but he
tells the story through art and if
you've never been a part of it you want
to come just to witness it just to see
it for yourself and so I like to say
that our cap program is like having a
little heaven right here on earth are
you with me this morning but the Bible
stories are more than just reciting or
reading the story we want those stories
to to captivate the hearts of our kids
some of the kids in the communities have
never been in a church before and yet
they heard the Bible stories for the
first time so what's my point I'm glad
you asked thank you sometimes a story is
much more than just a mere story
sometimes a story can be a gateway for
great things to happen sometimes
people's lives are transformed by the
stories are you with me and that's what
we want we don't want the stories just
to be a story what's the point of that
but the stories are life transforming
that's why we read the Bible that's why
we come to church is because we want our
lives to be transformed am I talking to
anybody so what I love about our texts
today is that I believe that the the
Gospel of Mark does the same thing it
takes a story and on one level it
imparts truth but the story can be
multi-dimensional on the surface it
seems so simple to talk about a blind
beggar asking for help and the blind
beggar gives it seems so simple but I
want you to continue to listen because I
think that the story is for us I think
the story is filled with much much more
so as we listen to this story on the
surface we might say it's just another
miracle story in the list of all the
other miracles that Bartimaeus
gets healed but the theologian says that
this passage is called the book in
passage because if you go to mark 8 22
to 26 it's the story about another man
being healed from being blind and then
we come to chapter 10 verses 45 to 52
and we see this healing story but the
reason why they call it a book in and
the reason why I think that these
stories are here is because I think that
mark wants to grow us up I think mark
wants us to mature as the body of Christ
I think he wants to advance our thinking
and he's basically saying listen to the
story because you would think that the
Pharisees have all the faith there is to
talk about but the Gospel of Mark says
listen to bartimaeus Bartimaeus has the
faith he's the one who's blind but
spiritually he can see and the Pharisees
are the one who can talk about the law
613 laws but they can't see they're
missing it and so what's so cool about
Bartimaeus he can't talk to you about
theology he doesn't know the proper
confessions the correct theology but
what Bartimaeus can tell us this morning
is that he has unrelenting faith and
Jesus that he can come and do what's
never been done for him so my question
this morning is do you believe that
Jesus can do what hasn't been done even
in your life and
it's what bartimaeus look at what
Bartimaeus does in this particular tax
he seems to know who Jesus is the
Pharisees they don't know who Jesus is
but he says son of David have mercy on
me he understands the lineage have mercy
on me and then he cried out you know why
I love this it's because too often we're
hurting as people and we never cry out
we go through a lot and we won't even
pick up the phone and call somebody to
tell him I don't know Isaac that's pride
get in the way that we we don't call
people and tell somebody what's going on
in our lives and half of us were going
through stuff and we'll say hey how you
doing you know what we'll say oh I'm
fine fine is an acronym fi any feelings
in need of expression amen what is it
about us that we are so self-sufficient
that we won't rely on one another I
don't know about you but I'm glad I've
got sense enough to know I need the
church anybody else I need to be in
church every time the doors open
I need to be in it I need Jesus I don't
know about you but I'm not afraid to say
it every time the door is open I need to
be there not laying in my my bed talking
about oh let me just relax from the weak
I need to hear a word I need to be fed
by them by the Word of God this text is
so powerful and it's challenging all at
the same time but my friends don't be
sad for about Emmaus because he has
enough sense the cry out not only does
he cry out but he does something else he
stands up he
cries out the disciples and others are
trying to ship anybody ever been
searched and they said be quiet
the Masters coming through son of David
help me heal me have mercy on me I told
you to be quiet and what I love about
Jesus is that he turns this thing on his
head now Jesus could have walked over to
Bartimaeus but Jesus tells the ones
who's telling him to be quiet bring him
to me I like that in other words it's a
gentle you be quiet and bring him to me
amen and then Jesus asks Bartimaeus a
question what is it that you want me to
do for you I'm gonna digress for a
moment because I want you to ponder the
question if God were to ask you this
morning what is it that you want me to
do for you what would you say it's a
rhetorical question
don't answer it if God were to ask you
what is it that need this morning what
would you say what I love about this
story is bartimaeus is very specific I
want to see again I want to see again
and let me tell you about Bartimaeus
faith when he stood up the scripture
says he took his cloak and he threw it
aside
you see most blind people would be in
there probably the sitting position and
all of their possessions would be right
there so they can feel it they could
touch it he knew he was going to get
healed he tossed it aside how many of
you come this morning with an
expectation that God can do anything but
fail there's no failure in God
bartimaeus knew he was going to be
healed do you know that God can heal you
do you know that he can do it bartemaeus
it and that's why he cried out he cried
out so much that he stopped Jesus white
in his tracks and he knew that Jesus
could meet his need and it's good for us
to think about this what I love about
this text is that Jesus says Tabata
Maius it doesn't seem to be a long
exchange but Jesus says to Bartimaeus
your faith has made you well
you see Bartimaeus came to him in faith
he knew who Jesus was he's the one with
all power and Jesus didn't say well
bartimaeus let me lay my hands on you
let me spit on the ground and put some
mud on your eyes he says to him your
faith has made you well
let me summarize this real quick for us
the characters spot Emmaus his need for
sight is Jesus his compassion and grace
it's the crowd and their determination
to silence Bartimaeus
and then we have bought emmaus who was
healed what I love about this text is
that we serve a loving and a gracious
God who knows how to bring his children
good gifts
Jesus says your faith has made you well
sometimes a story is much more than a
mere story sometimes a story can be a
doorway for life-changing things to take
place sometimes a story can reveal God's
will for our lives came across this
story and I'll close with this JD Greer
the pastor of the summit Church in
Raleigh North Carolina he's the author
of several books including gaining by
losing or why the future belongs to the
church he talks about how God brought
something into focus for him and he
talks about when he was a junior in high
school that he took his parents car on
an unauthorized road trip you kind of
get to see where this story is going
already right and he decided that he
would go on a skiing trip with a few of
his friends and it was a couple hours
away he knew that he was supposed to be
in church on Sunday morning so they were
gonna drive back early in the morning
and you know how we we do when we've got
a plan we've work it all out so the
speed limit is 60 miles then we just put
the cruise control on 62 miles and
whilst we should be fine right it was
all good until the driver fell asleep
and they went into a 20-foot ravine and
he says that before that he was in the
backseat with his head laying down on
the left side and he decided to move
over to the right side when the car hit
the ravine it turned upside down and
that left side left side was crushed he
and his friends got out of the car was
miraculous not a mark on them but now
he's got to go home and tell his parents
what he's done I don't know about him
but I wouldn't have gone home anybody
else but he goes home and he tells his
parents what's going on and his mother
says what time did this happen and he
said when we turned upside down I looked
she said for some strange reason God
woke me up at 5 o'clock this morning
and I began to pray for you like I've
never prayed before I asked the Lord was
it what is it going to take to get my
son's attention and so I began to pray
that my that God might reach you get to
your heart and I pray for your safety I
prayed for your protection
I pray that His perfect will would be
revealed to you and I pray for 30
minutes and then I lay back down and I
went to sleep
the pastor was telling the story and he
says I want to tell you this story
because I want you to hear how powerful
prayer is that God got my attention he
brought the right things into focus for
me and then he says this and this is for
all of us if God should wake you up at
five o'clock in the morning get up and
pray amen
and here's the deal sometimes a story
may seem just like a story but our Bible
stories are not like that they are life
transforming they can change your life
and this is what this pastor said I
heard all the stories went to church
every Sunday I knew them but one day I
had to make a decision about who I was
gonna serve God gave me another chance
to do that and he's given us another
chance to do it I want to leave you with
three things that we can do that helps
gone to bring things and to focus for us
the first is begin each day with God
begin each day with God spend some time
with God start out were to our
two-minute prayer because once you begin
to delight under two minutes it can turn
into five and the five can turn into 10
and the number two is pray without
ceasing the Apostle Paul says everything
through supplication in prayer so pray
without ceasing
and number three limit the distractions
in your life sometimes we have to unplug
from the busyness of the world are you
with me
sometimes it's just good to be quiet you
know we're good at taking coffee breaks
but maybe we should be taking prayer
breaks amen
we need to pray for our country we need
to pray for the healing of what goes on
in the world we need to pray for our
neighbors so let us pray without ceasing
so Isaac would you come and close my
sermon in prayer let us pray
most Heavenly Father we thank you this
morning God for this word god help us in
our faith Lord we ask you to just keep
us focused focused on you lord help us
to quiet the noise the noise of Facebook
the noise of tweeter the door noise God
in our lives the noise of texting the
noise of always checking our phone we
need to be checking with you you are our
source help us to stay plugged into you
because you are the author and finisher
of our faith Lord you said if we had the
faith of a mustard seed that we can
speak to that mountain and said be
removed I don't know what the mountain
is in your life this morning but help us
God
to speak to that mountain I don't know
whether sickness I don't know whether
it's disease I don't know what it is
financial I don't understand
you may you may be seated our scripture
reading comes from the book of Ephesians
chapter 6 verses 10 through 20 finally
be strong in the Lord in the strength of
his power put on the whole armour of God
so that you may be able to stand against
the wiles of the devil for our struggle
is not against enemies of blood and
flesh but against the rulers against the
authorities against cosmic powers of
this present darkness against the
spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly
places therefore take up the whole
armour of God so that you may be able to
withstand on that evil day and having
done everything to stand firm stand
therefore and fastened above the belt of
truth around your waist and put on the
breastplate of righteousness as shoes
for your feet put on whatever will make
you ready to proclaim the gospel of
peace with all of these take the shield
of faith with which you will be able to
quench all of the flaming arrows of the
evil one take the helmet of salvation
and the sword of the Spirit which is the
word of God pray in the spirit at all
times let me just say that again
pray in the spirit at all times and
every prayer and supplication to that
keep alert and always persevere in
supplications for all the saints pray
also for me so that when I speak a
message it may be given to me to make
known with boldness the mysteries of the
gospel for which I am an ambassador and
change
pray that I may declare it boldly as I
must speak may the lord add a rich
blessing to the reading the hearing of
God's Holy Word may it sing deep down
and bring forth much fruit the Word of
God for the people of God let us pray
most gracious God I'm a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm grateful for the gift
of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen I came
is from the congressional mandate the
82nd Congress passed it in 1952 but it's
talking about the Marines in readiness
so you know I love talking about the
Marines Marines embody the idea of
simplified Ellis which means always
faithful we know that there may come a
time when we are the when we are first
called upon to fight in defense of our
nation and its interest Marines are
always ready at a moment's notice
because they are trained equipped and
organized to respond with sound judgment
an appropriate force from combat
engagements to humanitary efforts and
missions Marines are the first
responders Marines are our nation's
9-1-1 force the Marine Corps must be
most ready when the nation is generally
lease ready lease ready to provide a
balanced force of readiness and at the
same time provide ground pounding and
air striking ready to suppress or
contain any international disturbance
short of a large-scale war that's
readiness that's what it means to be
combat ready so what does it mean to be
spiritually ready being spiritually
ready is putting on the full armor of
God so that we are prepared for the
challenges that we will encounter as
believers in Christ
in other words spiritual battles are
going to happen they're going to come
the question is will we be ready when
they come so if we know that it's going
to come what are we doing to prepare
ourselves for spiritual battle for
spiritual battle and this is what the
Apostle Paul was thinking about when he
wrote this text and this is why I want
us to think for just a few moments of
what it means to put on the full armor
of God and to stand firm I want to
challenge your thinking with the thought
spiritual warfare is inevitable and
every spiritual warfare
is inevitable let me ask this question
who's the enemy oh I got two people over
here who went to Sunday School yeah I
got to go to Sunday School I tell you
can you say it louder somehow we don't
want to say that name but you see we've
got to be spiritually ready and this is
what the Apostle Paul is talking about
Ephesians 6 verse 12 for our struggle is
not against flesh and blood but against
rulers against powers against world
forces of darkness against spiritual
forces of wickedness in high places
Dutch evangelist Corey boon he said it
like this
it's a poor soldier who does not
recognize the enemy who was the enemy so
that means your spouse is not the enemy
amen that means you don't need to come
home and yell at your kids because
they're not the enemy hello
you can stop kicking the door to the dog
when you get frustrated right because
they're not the enemy you don't have to
get on on social media and blast out
some colleague or somebody that you
don't like they're not the enemy are you
with me this morning and you know Satan
has this great strategy it's pretty
subtle he wants you to believe that he
doesn't exist because if you don't
believe that he doesn't exist then that
means that you will walk around lacks
the days ago and scripture says it like
this that the enemy comes to kill steal
and destroy he will steal your joy he
will kill the family and he will rob us
of whatever he can rob us with I was
reading Jay Bernie McGee and dr. Jay
Vernon McGee says it like this he says I
don't believe that Satan's in the
nightclubs he's not in nightlife he's
already got that he already owns that he
said I believe that Satan is right here
on Sunday morning because he wants to
stifle us from doing the very work that
God has for us to do are you with me are
you listening to me this morning the
enemy is real and he wants to stifle us
Greg if he can get you and I to be at
conflict with one another then we can
keep something going and we would be
less focused on what God wants us to do
are you with me this morning and
sometimes all he needs it's just one
naysayer in the room hello and you're
trying to do all of this good work over
here in the names
saying it's not gonna work you know we
did that last time it didn't work you
can't really raise money doing that it's
not going to work
oh they made that offering laughs what
five years ago we did that it didn't
work maybe we ought to try it again
maybe we ought to pray and ask God for
direction what am I saying we're
fighting the wrong people we're fighting
the wrong fights it's not against flesh
and blood my friends were in the world
but we're not of the world are you with
me and the weapons of warfare that we
have are different and this is what the
Apostle Paul is saying Paul is writing
from a Roman prison and just think with
me for a minute as as Paul is writing
and he wants to to sort of encourage the
Church of Ephesus and I imagine just
like Jesus would use the very stuff of
life in order for it to stick Paul gives
us this image he's watching the soldiers
go by he's looking at their uniform and
he's saying you know what I could use
this I could use this to encourage the
church in Ephesus because they're not
getting it right they're allowing strife
to come in they're fighting with each
other over the wrong things maybe I can
use this image to help them season 6 10
and 11 finally be strong in the Lord in
this
strength of his power notice he says his
power not our own power I'm gonna say it
again finally be strong in the Lord and
the strength of his power put on the
whole armour of God so that you may be
with able to stand against the wiles of
the devil notice Paul says be strong in
the Lord in the strength of his power
you know what I tell people we cannot
live this life without them I tell new
believers I can't live a day without
Christ I need him in my life none of us
can live this life without him some of
us has been foolish to think that we can
hello but we need him amen and this is
what the Apostle Paul is saying we need
him we need his strength to get us to
and what a great teaching that Paul
leads us and the first thing that Paul
says he noticed the soldiers with this
thick belt around their waist and the
belt was it it had these strips that
hung down it was to protect sort of the
vital organs
Paul noticed that and he says fasten the
belt of truth around your waist this is
what he's telling the church truth is
foundational
it's what grounds us you know too often
we give the devil more praise than we
give God hello we wake up with snap
crackle and pop and we all my back is
killing me today all the world is just
we give the devil more praise than we
give God and sometimes we believe the
lie more than we believe the truth
I said to a lady I said you are you are
beautiful she said I don't know what
you're looking at
you would rather believe the live them
believe the truth that's what we do and
we poising each other by criticizing and
we we allow ourselves to be used by the
enemy to tell people these lies with my
last breath I want to tell people God
loves them I want to tell people that
God's got a plan and a purpose for their
life I want to tell everyone that God
can use you if he can use me he can use
you amen I want to use my last breath to
encourage my brothers and sisters Paul
is saying God yourselves God yourselves
because the lies will come
Joely the lies will come and say you
can't do it you'll never be able to do
it you're not worth it Susan he'll tell
you that your sins is greater than his
love you don't deserve God's love the
after you send Dave that's what the
enemy says God's grace is greater than
any sin that we can commit the church
ought to say Amen the Lord is good
hallelujah Paul is looking around and he
noticed the soldiers breastplate it went
from the shoulders and it came down and
it was possibly the most beautiful part
of the armor because it was bronze so it
was iron and it sort of reflected with
the Sun as the soldier moved but had
weighed about 40 pounds but it protected
the vital organs
Paul looked at this and he instructs us
to put on the breastplate of
righteousness to put on the breastplate
of righteousness throughout Scripture we
see the word of heart now the
breastplate is to protect the heart but
we're not talking about the blood
pumping organ Paul is talking about our
thoughts and our emotions what if we as
the body of Christ were able to be
disciplined enough to keep our thought
life in subjection I'm talking about you
know sometimes crazy thoughts flow in
but don't don't let them live there Amen
thoughts we have of people there folks
who struggle with pornography and also
but what if they were able to keep their
thought life in subjection my friends
this is a sermon cereal on prayer enough
and if we are struggling in this arid
then maybe that's the area we need to
give God in prayer and say Lord I'm
struggling with keeping my thought life
in subjection I want to put on the
breastplate of righteousness but I find
that difficult to do the Apostle Paul
noticed the soldier and he noticed the
sandals that had straps that went all
the way around the leg and up the leg
anybody ever wore flip-flops have you
ever tried to run in flip-flops it looks
bad because once you fall in flip-flops
you lose all your cool points you can't
you can't even play it off but one day
I'll tell you about when I fell in in
flip-flops it wasn't good but Paul
looked he noticed the sandals and
under the sandals there were like rocks
embedded into the sandals sort of like
their Martin day cleats and it was used
so that it would stabilize the soldier
and shifting sand the soldier would have
balance and Paul noticed at it and he
says maybe we should put on the shoes of
a piece you see peace is not the absence
of tension peace is the presence of God
when we praise it's Lord I don't have
peace of mind today I feel troubled on
every side of what's going on scripture
says cast all of your cares upon me
because I care for you how many of you
want peace in your life the Bible says
he that keeps his mind stayed on me I
will keep them in perfect peace we've
got to put our minds on him amen and he
will indeed keep us in perfect peace
what an encouragement the Apostle Paul
is giving from a prison cell to the
Church of Ephesus and then Paul notice
the soldiers shield
it was huge the shield was four feet
tall two and a half foot wide
it was also heavy but it protected the
soldier's body from danger that would
come on either side and when Paul
noticed that he says what if we as the
body of Christ put on the shield of
faith scripture says that without faith
it's impossible to please God but what
if we put on the shield of faith to
for faith is the substance of things
hoped for the evidence of things not
seen we don't have to see it in order
believe it we can claim it by faith and
it can happen what if we believe that
everyday to put on the shield of faith
we can grow in our faith but our prayer
life is essential our devotional life is
essential
Huw my grandmother would say what you
got in your back pocket she wasn't
asking about your wallet she was asking
about what have you been studying what
have you been learning share with me
from your devotion what's in your back
pocket what's in your purse are you
studying the Word of God somehow when we
hear stories of faith we grow in our
faith they meant you hear how people
believed then just held on and would not
let go somehow is strengthens my faith
to say that if I'm in a situation like
that I want to be able to hold on to
think about mr. Lewis
mr. Lewis said right over there
and when he was in the hospital this
man's faith he said I don't want no more
medicine I don't want you to use all of
your ingenuity to keep me alive I have a
relationship with God when it's my time
I'm good to go I want to be with my Lord
and I want to be with my wife I've
outlived all my friends I'm good I know
where
going when I leave this place how many
of you know where you're going when you
leave this place
I was outside doing the yard yesterday
and it was 98 degrees I'm bent on going
to heaven anybody I'm bent on going to
heaven and then Paul noticed the helmet
of salvation he noticed the guards
helmet and these helmets were made of
iron and it was fitted for the soldier
could you imagine if it wasn't it would
twist around what good would that be and
then they had sort of like a peacock
feather that came off the helmet it was
to describe the rank of the soldier I
imagined Paul noticing that and he tells
the Church of Ephesus put on the helmet
of salvation gird yourself with this
he's basically saying protect the mind
protect the mind what goes into the mind
most of the time will do so Paul is
saying once again protect the mind you
may not be able to
thrown everything around you but he's
bassist basically saying but control
what goes into your mind then he notices
the soldiers sword and of course the
sword can be used for offense or defense
but one of the things that the soldiers
would do when they were ready for battle
they would take the sword out and hold
it up and the enemy would know that
they're ready for battle and then they
would take off and run to the enemy to
fight
Paul notice this and he says but the
Word of God my goodness is the sword
it's the spirit that's what we need to
be on to it
notice my friends when Jesus fasted for
forty days and the enemy came he fought
the enemy by using the Word of God Satan
said hey turn that stone into bread you
can do it
Jesus says man shall not live by bread
alone but by every word that proceeds
out of the mouth of God hey throw
yourself off this cliff scripture says
you wouldn't even dash your foot upon
the stones angels would be here to carry
you Jesus says don't tempt the LORD thy
God then he told him I will worship God
and only God but here's the real deal he
used scripture to fight the enemy but
this is
scripture says it said and then Satan
left him for an opportune time which
meant that Satan was coming back the
enemy is real the enemy is coming back
sometimes we win some skirmishes and we
get overly excited but we haven't won
the battle the enemy is coming back this
stuff is real I was working at the
Virginia treatment center as a seminary
student and I got a call to rush to the
back one young man little boy 14 years
old try to hang himself with the belt
and they was able to bring him back and
they wanted me to go and talk to him I
was a seminary student I'm thinking what
in the world am I going to say to this
kid so I started praying I was scared
anybody ever been scared but courage
means you're scared but you're gonna do
what you got to do so I had a little
courage and when I went in I wanted to
ask the young man why would he do such a
thing and this is what he told me he
said he heard a voice that scared him
and told him to do it and this is what I
told him you cannot live this life
without Christ none of us can I let him
to the Lord he gave his life to the Lord
and I taught him a prayer to fight the
enemy when the enemy would come this
stuff is real I'm not making this stuff
up two days later I'm walking and the
little kid came running across they used
to call me Rebbe Rev Rev Rev thank you
for helping me the other night he says
but last night had happened to another
guy and he says would you be willing to
talk to him like you talked to me this
stuff is real
and the enemy's strategy is also subtle
he wants you to believe that he doesn't
exist and then he can sift us like wheat
remember what it says comes to kill
steal and destroy we've seen it broken
families look at our nation and I really
love what Jay Vernon McGee says he's not
in the nightclubs he's got the
nightclubs he's not in the nightlife
he's come to stifle us to keep us from
being all that we could be for the Lord
and anytime we talk about spiritual
warfare we begin to talk about this you
know what the real problem is we tend to
over into emphasize or under emphasize
sort of where we don't want to believe
that it it really exists and then the
enemy has us Ephesians 6 verses 10 and
12 finally be strong in the Lord and his
mighty power put on the full um of God
so that you are able to withstand
against the schemes for the struggle is
not against flesh and blood but against
rulers against authorities against
powers of this world and against
spiritual forces of wickedness in high
places
Ephesians 6 13 through 18 describes what
I just shared with you about putting on
the full armor of God but this is what
Paul would say because I want you to
know the truth I want you to know
what God is saying to you he's telling
you he loves you he's telling you he's
got a plan and a purpose for you and so
Paul goes through his litany put on the
belt of truth the blessed the
breastplate of righteousness the gospel
of peace the shoes of peace the shield
of faith the helmet of salvation and
carried the sword of the Spirit but then
he says pray pray about every aspect
pray last week I talked to you about dr.
Tony Evans who said too often we talk
about prayer he says don't talk about it
pray we get in these wonderful
theological discussions about the
importance of prayer he says don't talk
about it pray he says preachers you want
to preach about prayer but pray it'll
make all of the difference through
everything through all supplication and
prayer pray and this is what we need to
do as the body of Christ this is the way
that we put on the full armor so that we
can be all that God wants us to be we
can be sharp of mind we can work
together as the body of Christ with a
single focus amen the enemy will tell us
it can't happen it won't happen I think
not I believe that a whole lot can
happen when we trust in the Word of God
for a live study to show that cells
approve a workman that need not be
ashamed but rightly dividing the word of
truth thy word
have a hidden side of me that I might
not sin against thee pray sir I'm gonna
ask if you would pray for us again
I want you to come up here and take a
mic so that people can hear you
let us pray Heavenly Father I thank you
for these words of truth that you've
given to us lord I thank you for
bringing it to our attention that
there's a strategy that you have for us
to be successful against the enemy that
we don't have to be unaware and unwise
Lord when it comes to the opponent that
we have but we can be excited and
blessed that we are on the winning team
Lord that you I've already won the
battle and I pray that you would help us
to see each day how we can continue to
be strong how we can stand in you
despite our circumstances Lord I pray
that you would strengthen each one of us
and that you would also give us
encouragement and how we can strengthen
one another as the body of Christ Lord
that when we see people that need to be
lifted up I pray that we would act on
those impulses that you give to us
through your Holy Spirit that we would
reach out to one another throughout the
week to encourage each other to
strengthen each other so that we can be
strong even as those soldiers would
stand side by side with their shields
together so that the enemy could not
penetrate them lord I pray that we would
stand strong as the body of Christ not
only here in Providence but worldwide
Lord that the body would come together
and fight against everything that is
against your word and against truth
thank you so much for your truth and for
your power that lives within us in Jesus
name Amen
that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples our Father who are in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us for me
for thine is the kingdom and the power
and the glory forever and ever amen
last night I took a journey to a land
across the seas I didn't go there by
boat a plane but I traveled on my knees
I saw so many people there and the
deepest depths of sin and Jesus told me
that I should go there that there were
Souls to win but I said Lord I cannot go
I don't know what to say to one such as
these and he answered quickly yes you
can
by traveling on your knees he said you
pray I'll meet the need you call and I
will hear but you must be concerned
about lost souls both far and near and
so I tried it I knelt in prayer and gave
up some hours of ease and I felt the
Lord right by my side as I traveled on
my knees as I prayed on I saw twisted
bodies healed I saw God's workers
strength renewed while laboring in the
field
I said yes Lord I'll take the job your
heart I want to please and I know that I
can heed your call and swiftly go by
traveling on my knees ridden by Sandra
Goodwin talking to you today about the
power of prayer tapping in to the power
of prayer I'm not going to pray the
prayer that I usually pray over myself
but I'm going to pray Charles Swindell
prayer so let us pray dear God thank you
for your tender mercies new mercies you
give to us each day
and once again you find us in the midst
of a mess yet Lord you are never one to
shame or to China simply because you
understand us and you know us completely
all of us like sheep have gone astray
and all of us have turned to our own way
you have laid on Jesus the iniquity of
us all hear the beats of our hearts as
we come before you acknowledging that we
are nothing more than dust we do not
deserve your love we do not deserve your
grace but thanks be to God that's what
grace is about receiving what we do not
deserve and rather than trying to find
ways to exploit your grace let us be
overwhelmed by the goodness of it Lord
we thank you for your unmerited favor
which you have bestowed upon your people
yet many have gone astray this nation
has gone astray and our world has long
since lost its way we are at odds with
you and not walking with you can be
categorized as sin how gracious are you
to invite sinners to come to your table
you invite the poor the needy the weak
and the wounded and as you have
said come unto me all who are weary and
heavy-laden and I will give you rest
Lord I pray for those who have blown it
for those who look back over their lives
their homes and realize that their
failures have caused damage hurt and
pain I pray that you will speak through
your word today and deliver us rescue us
from the guilt in the shame and bring us
to a place of grace and peace and give
us the strength to move on we count on
you today father to feed us the good
news of your word that it may nourish
our souls may we find ourselves less
preoccupied with the things of this past
week or the concerns of what we face
tomorrow our future is in your hands and
may we in the midst of now hear what you
have to say to us let us take your word
to heart and allow it to guide us in the
way that we should go and we pray all
all of this in the matchless name of
Jesus Christ and all of God's people
said talking about the power of prayer
and as I began to work this sermon I I
wondered if sometimes that we as the
body of Christ
don't understand the power of prayer
that's available to us the same power
that raised Jesus Christ is available to
us
when we pray the same power that raised
him back to heaven the ascension power
is the same power that's available to us
when we pray prayer is our greatest
weapon my friends when I think of the
world and what we go through we deal
with issues related to the economy
national leadership spiritual and moral
decay crime drugs healthcare terrorism
education race relations ethics the
environment and I can go on all of that
says to me is high time to pray as the
body of Christ we should be on our knees
praying praying for our leaders praying
for our way with children praying for
everything that goes on but knowing how
to pray is not always as easy as it
seems Jesus disciples felt the same way
they were familiar with the repeated
prayers of the Torah but when Jesus
prayed he prayed with authority
he prayed with a power that they had
never seen before
he prayed as though God was listening do
you pray as though God is listening what
we do or do we say our prayers to
quickly get up so we can go back to what
we were doing or do we just say our
prayers
in row our Father which are in heaven I
will be then and we don't even think
about it anymore we don't feel anything
when we say it prayer it's a powerful
thing so when it came to Jesus as told
in Matthew 6 his disciples said not
teach us another prayer they said teach
us to pray not another prayer but when
they saw how Jesus prayed with power and
with authority
they said I want to pray like that I'm
reminded of the story of George Mueller
he was known for his powerful prayers in
the course of his ministry to the
orphans in England he never asked a male
or female a person for any money he
always prayed directly to God in every
penny he ever needed
he received once while he was on his way
to speak in Quebec on the deck of the
ship he was talking to the captain and
he told the captain that he needed to be
in Quebec by Saturday afternoon and now
the captain is relating this story the
captain said mr. Mueller that's going to
be impossible do you know how dense this
fog is
no mr. Mueller replied my eyes is not on
the density of the fog but on the Living
God who controls every circumstance of
life I've never broken an engagement in
57 years let us go down to your chart
room and let us pray there
the captain is telling the stories he
said they went down to the chart room
and Reverend Mueller got down on his
knees and he said a very simple prayer
but the prayer was profound and he says
and I went to pray and he put his hands
on my shoulder and he says no I don't
want you to pray you don't want me to
pray snow you don't believe that God can
do it so why would I want you to pray I
already believe that God has already
done it captain I want you to go
upstairs and open the door and you will
see that the fog is gone the captain
says in disbelief he walked up to open
the door you could imagine this can't
you
he thinks a little simple prayers gonna
work the fog is as thick as it can be
we're not gonna get there by Saturday
but to his surprise when he opened the
doors the fog was gone and Muller made
that appointment on Saturday afternoon
Muller prayed as if though God was
listening do we pray as though God
Himself is listening to our prayers
talking about tapping in to the power of
prayer what I love about this text that
was read in your hearing is that the
first assignment that the Apostle Paul
gives to Timothy in regards to the
Church of Ephesus was to correct their
teaching you see they had began to drift
from sound teaching to controversial
teaching teachings that would
deteriorate the faith and he wanted to
get them back to a place of obedience a
place of trusting God and so he uses the
Apostle Paul as his model you know
that's the first step in spirits gaining
about a spiritual spanking that I had
received wanting to do it my way anybody
else been there and you think Oh it'll
be fine how many of you know that when
you don't do it God's Way it's not gonna
work anybody and then we find that he
tells Timothy the second assignment is
to order the public worship of the
Church of Ephesus don't cease to get
together but when you come together pray
that's why we come to church to talk
about our individual lives our lives
corporately we come to talk about what's
going on in the church what's happening
it's no different than it was for them
on that day we come to feed on God's
Word everything that we need God's got
it how many of you know that to be true
we come to experience God anew and he
says I urge that supplications prayers
intercessions and thanksgiving be made
for everyone for kings and for those who
are in high places that they too might
lead a quiet and a peaceful godly life
you see the concept of praying for
leaders didn't just come from the
Democratics who have the National Day of
Prayer this is biblical
it happened long before that why
shouldn't we pray for our leaders why
would we not want to pray that God might
have influence in their life why would
we not want to pray that they might get
saved give their lives to God do things
God's Way and not even their own way I
love when Daniel was here and what I
loved about Daniel's prayers he would
take the time and and write his prayers
out but Daniel's prayers challenged me
because he talked about prayer globally
nationally now I'll be honest with you
I'm good about praying for my family
I'm good about praying for my wife and
my son and about things that's happening
in the Bahamas things that are happening
in New Jersey and in Atlanta I pray for
all of you
I'm good about that but I'm not so good
praying naturally I'm not so good
praying globally anybody else
I heard confession is good for the soul
but it's bad for your reputation but I'm
confessing anyway but why not pray for
our leaders with petitions prayers
intercessions and Thanksgiving you know
sometimes we pray and I don't know about
you but I've said this when I think
nationally when I think globally and I
said Lord I'm only one person what can I
do all of these things that are
happening in the world I'm I'm just one
person
anybody ever prayed that prayer and I
hear God say to me have you prayed you
know sometimes we're good at complaining
about what goes on in the world I mean
some of us have a PhD in it but the
question is do we pray about the things
that are going on in the world as the
body of Christ what are we doing about
it
Apostle Paul says don't forget this when
you get together don't become a
members-only Club y'all remember the
jackets that used to have Members Only
he says don't become that but pray
for your neighbor who don't come to
church that's who needs our prayers pray
for the loss for the wayward son some of
you got friends some of you've got
family members that are wayward that are
out there we need to be fasting and
praying for them amen sometimes we're so
blessed because it's not in our
immediate family but when we love people
if you're hurting I'm hurting this week
Jolie King had to put down two of her
cats and she was hurting and when I got
the news I was hurting there's some in
this room right now who are without a
spouse when we say that we love you when
you're hurting we're hurting too we need
to pray for one another I'm so grateful
for my prayer group we meet every
right ish right
I'll just put issue and we pray about
everything that goes on in the life of
the church we pray that God will make
the increase we pray over our sick and
I'll shut in to me that's the bread and
the butter my friends this text is
asking us to be the body of Christ and
some of you saying well I'm not George
Mueller I can't pray like that
I can't just pray and believe and
entrust George Mueller human being who
just trust God
now remember when Peter was in prison
and the body of Christ prayed for him
and the chains fell off him and the
gates open y'all remember the old story
and in the Old Testament of Hanna who
was barren and she prayed and God opened
her womb and she had a son and named him
Samuel and he became one of the great
prophets y'all remain remember King
Hezekiah that he was told that he would
die and he prayed and God spared his
life 15 more years y'all remember Elijah
just a human being who prayed that it
wouldn't rain in for three and a half
years it didn't rain and when he prayed
again it rained some of you are saying
well those are just stories in the Bible
you know what I would say tap into the
power of prayer tap into the power of
prayer
I was looking at that I thought about
the scripture in Hebrews 10 verse 27 25
that says forsake not the assembling of
yourselves together now I know that
there folks out here who say I can
experience God other than going to
church I believe that I know that
there's some of you will gonna say I
experience God when I'm gardening I
believe that I think I know that there's
some who say when I'm I'm golfing out
there it's nothing like it I'm on the
greens
and I experience God I believe him but I
also believed the Word of God Hebrews 10
verse 25 forsake not the assembling of
yourselves together something happens
when we come together as the body of
Christ and we began to talk and minister
to one another you remember in the book
of Acts
Isaac was talking about it today that
they were all together on one Accord
something happens when we get together
and we talk about what we need a shared
burden becomes half the burden something
happens when we become the body of
Christ when we come together you know
what happens to us sometimes the enemy
gets in there and some of us will walk
away and we'll miss the message
completely because you know what we'll
say well we didn't have as many people
as we normally have we got folks that
are dying and that's where our focus is
rather than on the power of God
it's the love to see Mildred Isabel
coming here in her Walker
well mr. Lewis Miller on his Walker just
to come to church one more time
just to have that fellowship one more
time I don't know if this will be my
last time but I'm coming we have no
excuse amen
Tom Coffman coming to church sitting in
the back with oxygen we have no excuse
something happens when we come as the
body of Christ I'm talking about tapping
into the power of prayer first John 5
says it like this this is the confidence
that we have in approaching God that if
we ask anything according to his will I
don't know about you but I've messed
that up many times like I'm directing
God I pray and I say God I want you to
do this like I'm directing God and I
don't know but I've learned to pray in
Jesus name and I've learned to say and
Lord that you'll will be done anybody
know what I'm talking about let your
will be done not my will it's not about
me it's about God James 5 verse 16 says
it's this way that the prayers of the
righteous are powerful and effective and
it avails much jesus said it like this
if you have the faith the size of a
mustard seed when you pray you could
tell a mountain to be moved and guess
what he says it will have
to move I'm talking about tapping in to
the power of prayer something happens to
us when we pray and our prayers are not
answered then we don't think that God
has the power to answer our prayers
because it didn't happen the way that we
thought that it should happen but the
Apostle Paul tells us do not be anxious
about anything but in everything through
supplication in prayer would
Thanksgiving present your requests to
God and the peace of God which
transcends all understanding will guard
your your hearts in your minds in Christ
Jesus I can go on with story after story
I can give you full accounts where the
power of prayer has done the impossible
where the power prayer conquered death
where the power of prayer healed cast
out my friends God through prayer can
open eyes can change hearts can healed
wounds can grant wisdom what's my point
my point is very simple that the power
of prayer should never be underestimated
the power of prayer should never be
underestimated I'm going to close with
this an organ in a large church had
broke down one Sunday morning and a
member of the congregation happened to
be an organ repairman and he immediately
went to work on the instrument finding
that it was a simple electrical problem
that's God calling don't worry it's
alright finding that it was a simple
electrical problem when he finally got
it fixed
in the middle of the pasture sermon he
went quietly and he passed a note to the
organist which said after prayer the
power will be on isn't that fitting that
after prayer the power will be on
talking about tapping into the power of
prayer Isaac would you close our sermon
with the word of Prayer
I want to thank God for the power of
prayer and thank God for this message
today on prayer because we don't
understand exactly what God has given us
in prayer but God is concerned about
every area of your life he's concerned
about the little things that you may not
think that are important but because he
took the time to create you your DNA
your fingerprints you are one of a kind
he loves you as your father and he wants
to take care of you and every concern in
your life so let us pray this morning
most Heavenly Father we thank you today
thank you for this teaching on prayer
lord help us to bring everything to you
in prayer that we cannot handle
everything ourselves for we know that
the battle is not ours but it is yours
Lord help us and guide us and lead us
Lord in the path of righteousness for
your name's sake that your will be done
in each and every life here today God
keep your hands upon every person today
Lord thank you for good health and
strength in their life touch those who
may be sick right now Lord those who are
shut in right now those who are not able
to make it Lord but touch them give them
the strength that they need but father
we lift everything up in prayer as the
corporate body of Christ we love you and
we thank you and we thank you for that
prayer that you taught your disciples to
pray when you said our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
forever
before I read the scripture I want to
share one story with you on yesterday
the missions team and and others went
out for the end of the month humph and
we gave out food to families but one
lady that we gave food to there was so
much she couldn't carry it and we
decided that we would help her carry it
to her apartment and she said are you
the pastor and I said yes
and she said my my daughter died and I
said how long ago was that she says it
was in August she was murdered
and we just stopped right there and I
called the whole team and everybody
surrounded her and laid hands on her and
we prayed for her and afterwards she
said you have no idea how much I needed
that and I thought if we didn't go there
for any other reason that's why God sent
us that day so that we can pray with
somebody who needed to experience God
how many of you need to experience God
sometimes you need to feel the love of
God sometimes to be told that God loves
you that he's got a plan for you and
that it's gonna be all right in the
midst of her storm so I just wanted to
share that with you our reading comes
from the book of Mark chapter 10 verses
13 through 16 people were bringing
little children to him in order that he
might touch them and the disciples spoke
sternly to them but when Jesus saw this
he was indignant and said to them let
the little children come to me do not
stop them for it is to such as these
that the kingdom of God belongs truly I
tell you whoever does not receive the
kingdom of God as a little child will
never enter it
and he took them up in his arms he laid
his hands on them and He blessed them
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
made sing deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace I am grateful
for the gift of salvation but I'm still
a broken vessel but I know all you have
to do is say the word and I shall be
healed long enough to do your work and
to do your will hide this preacher
behind the cross that your people might
see you and not me that they might hear
you and not me that the words of my
mouth and the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I came across this thing that kids say
the darndest things
and it was asking kids about the Bible
and so the first question was why was
Jesus born and the answer was Jesus was
born because Mary had an immaculate
contraption
what is the first commandment in the
Bible and one little boy said the first
commandment was when Eve told Adam to
eat the apple that's the first
commandment then what is the seventh
commandment oh I know the seventh
commandment is thou shall not admit
adultery
I want a challenge you're thinking this
morning with the thought become as a
little child become as a little child
sometimes when we read the scriptures
and we find Jesus talking and he's
talking in parables we walk away saying
what is he trying to say what is he
after and this text is no different and
so it leads us with some puzzling
questions why did disciples try to keep
the little children from coming to Jesus
and what did Jesus mean when he when he
said let the little children come unto
me for the Kingdom of Heaven belongs to
one such as these I think it's important
for us to remember that children are
beautiful beautiful to families but in
this day and age in Jesus time they were
probably a blessing to their family
because children were a sign of success
for successful family but other than
that they were to be seen and not heard
in Jesus day and so I'm not defending
the disciples but perhaps the disciples
didn't want the children to get in the
way so maybe that's why they spoke to
the parents to stop them from bringing
the kids to Jesus perhaps they thought
that the children would bother Jesus and
become a distraction to him teaching
maybe that's why they spoke to the
parents not to bring the children before
Jesus maybe
it wasn't proper to bring children to
the rabbi's and so they were following
social customs I just want us to
understand that they were not just being
mean to the children but there could
have been other reasons why they stopped
the children from coming to Jesus but
what we do know is that Jesus says what
are you doing no no no no bring them to
me
and scripture says that they brought the
children to Jesus he set them on his lap
and he began to teach he laid hands on
the kids and he he blessed them and what
I love about this is that in the kingdom
everyone is significant amen everyone is
significant to God and Jesus is showing
it here came across this great story of
Reverend davon HUS and he shares a story
about one of his friends who was also a
preacher his name was called Edison Carl
had a bunch of children and his children
grew up and they began having a bunch of
children so Coll had a lot of
grandchildren but one of his sons his
son's wife was having a baby she went to
the hospital late in the night and so
they didn't call call the baby was born
and in the morning they forgot to call
their father call by afternoon
someone called call from the church to
congratulate him
on his new grandbaby but he had not
heard from his son so call was a was
upset I can't tell you if that scenario
happened in my house my mother would be
coming anybody know what I'm talking
about
she would be coming to the hospital so
call was upset and he called his son and
he says why did I have to hear this news
from a member of my church and his son
says daddy you have so many
grandchildren we just thought that it
was just another child it was no big
deal
and he says that's my grandson
it's a big deal yes I have a lot of
grandchildren but it doesn't mean that
I'm gonna love this one any less than I
love the others
don't take that away from me and if you
should have another child have sense
enough to give me a call now that sounds
like my mother my mother would say that
but what I like about this story is that
sometimes we think that God has so many
children that surely he can't be
concerned about me
surely God's not concerned about me he's
up there in heaven and he's concerned
about me my answer to you is yes God is
concerned about you there's a song that
we sing Savior save you hear my humble
cry while another sour calling do not
pass me by I like this song but I don't
like its theology because God will never
pass us by
Amen he says he promised never to leave
us never to leave us alone he said that
he would be with us even unto the ends
of the age
God will never pass us by
he loves us with the
that won't let us go and that's what we
wanted to tell that lady on yesterday
that he loves you what the love that
won't let you go then even when you're
going through the storms of life he's
right there he promised to be right
there so what can we learn from our
children Jesus says let the little
children come unto me and do not hinder
them for the kingdom of God belongs to
such as these I looked it up and in
Scripture it refers to children over 435
times / 435 times it means it's
important amen
but I wonder if sometimes we forget what
it means to be child alike dr. King at
the age of 26 was commanding the
attention of the nation but he took his
kids to amusement park and there he was
in a suit on the ground playing with his
kids and Coretta was upset she said
Martin get off the floor
you're acting like a four-year-old and
his response was beautiful he said why
should I be four years old
once I love this story because it's so
rich and I was looking in the commentary
and one of my favorite common writers is
dr. Jay Vernon McGee and dr. Jay Vernon
McGee says you know isn't it interesting
that we we move from childhood to
adolescence and to to becoming a young
adult and then an adult and then seniors
we spend our whole life becoming he said
and then Jesus turns it on his head
Jesus says now that you have become I
want you to become like a child and dr.
J Vernon McGee says what I'm done with
that I'm a grown person now what do you
mean become as a child I think he's
talking about in our thinking to become
like a child you know the older we get
the more inflexible we become anybody
know what I'm talking about
we become rigid and and fixed and our
way in our thinking and the older we get
the worse it can get some of you've come
from homes where your parents were rigid
it was their way or the highway I'm one
of them it was my mother's way or no way
and we grew up thinking that that's the
way to be what happened to us and that's
what Jesus is saying don't get so rigid
don't act like you know everything but
be open to possibilities be open to the
movement of God you know as we become
adults we won't do anything without a
sign God I'll do it but when I walk
outside I want to see a rainbow then
I'll know it's you kids are not like
that and Jesus is saying to them you
could learn something from the kids you
got to change the way you think
I love Romans 12 verses 1 & 2
therefore I urge you brothers and
sisters and view of God's mercy to offer
your bodies as a living sacrifice holy
and pleasing to god this is your true
and proper worship do not conform to the
patterns of this world but be
transformed by the renewing of your mind
that you will be able to test and to
approve what God's will is his good
pleasing and perfect well be transformed
by the renewing of your mind that saying
be open don't be rigid
don't be so fixed one way Jesus says let
the little children come to me and don't
hinder them and I think he said that
because there's something about children
that we must not forget that children
are innocent yes but Jesus is telling us
that they are trusting children believe
without complication you see the world
hasn't gotten in there and hasn't
corrupt them yet there's something that
we can learn from our children children
receive with joy forgetting themselves
with light-hearted abandonment children
are meek and humble of heart
Jesus says suffer the little children to
come unto me
children are content with the little
things I'll never forget I was in the
Philippines in the military and in this
particular area where I was it was
really rundown very poor very
dilapidated area in there I saw a little
boy maybe four
five he didn't have any clothes on but
he had a stick and a coca-cola can and
he was pushing it down the street
and laughing not a stitch on and I
thought that's real joy amen
too often it takes so much to get us
happy to make us happy it probably costs
a whole lot to make us happy amen
but children are not like that children
have the faith to move mountains and
this is what Jesus is talking about that
children can still be awed by the Holy
Spirit children take the heart the Word
of God and its simplicity I don't know
if some of you knew Ronnie justice it's
a member of our church worked with our
youth but we always said that Ronnie
justice had childlike faith and here's
Ronnie justice faith God said it I
believe it and that's enough of me
childlike he didn't eat a rainbow he
didn't eat a sign the Word of God was
all he needed God said it I believe it
and that's enough for me when my son was
born I told some of you that he was a
seven year prayer and I'll never forget
when my wife put the little picture on
the dresser of the sonogram I went
ballistic I went nuts I called everybody
I knew I told everybody that Natalia is
pregnant we're gonna have a baby I was
so excited and then he was born in the
nurse handing them to me and I had my
daddy rock on how many of you know to
Daddy rocks I don't you know to Daddy
Rock
and I'm looking at this baby the most
beautiful baby I had ever seen and he's
smiling at me he sleep with a smile on
his face
and it dawned on me he trusts me that
Papa's gonna take care of me that it's
gonna be all right
and then it dawned on me that's the same
kind of love and trust that our Heavenly
Father wants us to have amen
when you're going through the storms of
life talk to him just a little talk with
Jesus makes it all right and when you're
going through it tell her what's going
on tell him you don't like it tell him
you need him to intercede on your behalf
tell him everything that you need to
tell him and then believe that he'll
show up in great ways Jesus used this
because children know how to trust first
John three verse one says see what great
love the father has lavished on us that
we should be called the children of God
that's what we are we should become like
children in our thinking
Isaak is not here today but one of the
things that I would say about him is he
has a teachable spirit and I like that
the moment I start sharing theological
concepts he gets a pad and he gets a
pencil and he says go ahead start
talking if I give him a task in the
church he gets out a pad and a pencil
and he says go ahead and one of his
greatest gifts as he's a good listener
sometimes it might behoove us to become
better listeners anybody first year of
my marriage my wife came home from work
and she was upset and she started
telling me about it
and so I stood up I put my hands on my
hip I'm a man right and I said
sweetheart this is what you need to do
you need to do such-and-such and you
need to do such-and-such and she got
close to me and she says that I asked
you to fix it
I said no I thought that's why you told
me because I'm a man I want to fix it I
wanna I want to help she said I'm not
one of your troops all I need you to do
is listen childlike spirit amen for some
of you about to get married you remember
that okay learn to be good listeners but
I think that what Jesus is talking about
when he's talking about children it's
not only do they trust but he says
children have great faith and they offer
humility so Jesus is lifting up the
children because they're meek in their
humble he's lift lifting them up because
they have a teachable spirit he's
lifting them up because they are pliable
into the hands of the father
they're not cynical they're not prideful
was so interesting as we read our story
last week the disciples should be out
teaching other people Jesus is coming to
the end but what does he find them doing
arguing with one another about who's
going to be number one they missed it
who's going to be number one in the
kingdom who will sit on his left and who
will sit on his right and notice in this
story he says you don't know it all yet
don't don't hinder the children from
coming to me let them come
learn from them have a teachable spirit
learn from them don't be so fixed in
your position be open to the wonder of
God to the movement of God to the way
that God might do it his ways are not
our ways and our ways are not his ways
let us pray most gracious God we love
you and we thank you for the opportunity
to become as
little children again why should we be
four years old once but to remain open
to all of your possibilities for each
and every one of us Lord we thank you
for this great church and for the folks
here pray that you might meet every need
and father as we talked about it today
you have many children but you care for
each and every one of us stop by the
hospital rooms Lord stop by our sick and
are shut in lift them to their highest
possibilities in you for what's in
Christ's name we pray amen
maybe us has come forth that we might
worship the Lord that the gift
our second reading this morning is from
the book of Mark the tenth chapter verse
35 through 45 says James and John the
sons of Zebedee came forward to him and
said to him teacher we want you to do
for us whatever we ask of you and he
said to them what is it you want me to
do for you and they said to him grant us
to sit one at your right hand and one at
your left in your glory but jesus said
to them you do not know what you are
asking are you able to drink the cup
that I drink or be baptized with the
baptism that I am baptized with they
replied we are able then jesus said to
them the cup that I drink you will drink
and with the baptism with which I am
baptized you will be baptized but to sit
at my right hand or at my left is not
mine
to grant but it is for those for whom it
has been prepared when the ten heard
this they began to be angry with James
and John so Jesus called them and said
to them you know that among the Gentiles
those whom they recognized as their
rulers lord it over them and their great
ones are tyrants over them but it is not
so among you but whoever wishes to
become great among you must be your
servant and whoever wishes to be first
among you must be slave of all for the
Son of man came not to be served but to
serve and to give his life a ransom for
many
this is the word of God for the people
of God
let us pray most gracious God I'm
grateful for the gift of salvation but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word so that
I'm able to do this work and to do your
will hi this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought anybody can
serve anybody can serve this text is a
powerful text that was read in your
hearing but what came before this Texas
the disciples and Jesus and other
followers are walking along the road
they headed towards Jerusalem and Jesus
is walking ahead of them and it's a
little odd for him to do this he's sort
of out of character to them said that
the disciples were made but the
followers were afraid what is he doing
that's not like him he's not saying
anything he's not talking he's just
walking along what should we expect you
could imagine and then Jesus stops and
he turns around and he shares with them
in detail what's going to happen to him
he says the Son of Man will be handed
over to the chief priests and scribes
the Pharisees they gonna flog him
they're gonna spit on him and they're
gonna kill him but on the third day He
will rise again and then the scripture
says then James and John made their
request did they not hear what Jesus
just said he's telling them what's going
to happen to him I don't know about you
but Jesus knew what was going to happen
how he would die I don't want to know
anybody else I don't want to know when
it comes let it come but he had this
knowledge and he wants to share it with
his closest friends he loved them
they've been with him for three plus
years he wants to hand the ministry over
to them
and scripture says and then James and
John comes and says we have a request
when you come into your kingdom let one
of us sit on your right or one on your
left isn't it interesting how ambition
can get the best of us wanting our own
way can sometimes get in the way of what
God wants - to do anybody know what I'm
talking about
are there any workaholics anybody I put
my hand down I'm the only one but
sometimes what we want to do can get in
the way and the disciples missed it they
miss this opportunity to learn from the
master all of that Jesus taught them
they miss the opportunity
to serve one another I was at Duke
University and I liked to play around in
the archives and I went to the archives
and I wanted to see if dr. King had
spoken there and whenever I would travel
to other colleges I would look and
sometimes they had a manuscript was
sometimes they had a tape and I would go
and listen to it but Duke didn't have a
tape or a manuscript of dr. King
speaking there but they had one of his
father daddy came and so I listened to
the tape and when I listened to the tape
he shares this story that when Martin
Luther King jr. was just six years old
he came into his room and he says daddy
I had a dream he said son tell me about
that dream he said God told me that I
would change the world he said really
son did he tell you how you would change
the world he says no Papa but he told me
to take my study serious and that he
would later reveal to me what would
happen some of you know that dr. King
catapulted through school went to
college at fifteen years old graduated
with his PhD at 26 and then that's when
he came on the scene he wrote five books
thirteen articles and he was just
amazing but here's why I mentioned dr.
King this is what he says about service
serving others service is the souls
highest purpose services the path to
greatness and it is the path to God why
because anyone can serve you don't have
to have a college degree in order to
serve
you don't have to make your subject and
your verb agree in order to serve you
don't have to know about Plato or
Aristotle in order to serve you don't
have to know Einstein's theory of
relativity in order to serve you don't
even have to know the second theory of
thermodynamics in physics in order to
serve you only need a heart full of
grace and a soul generated by love in
order to serve anyone can serve I came
across this great story was about the
Revolution and it was talking about the
American Revolution a man on a on a
horse in civilian attire rode past a
group of soldiers repairing a small
defensive barrier and their leader was
shouting instructions at them but he was
making no effort to help so this man in
civilian clothing asked why was he
shouting at them and not helping and he
says because I'm a corporal
he says you're what he says I'm a
corporal and so the man says oh sorry so
he got off his horse and he helped those
men build this defensive barrier and
when he was done he walked over to the
Corporal and he says mister corporal
we're done and the next time that you
need help you should call on your
commander-in-chief and I will come and
I'll help you just like I did today it
was none other than George Washington
you see George Washington saw himself as
a servant I came across this story of
the late great
Dave Thompson the founder of Wendy's and
people asked him what was his success
and he says my MBA and most people
thought that he was talking about a
master's in business education but
that's not what he was talking about he
was talking about a mop a bucket and
having the right attitude Amen you see
he was willing to take the lease job
there was no job that he wouldn't do
mopping okay if it the floor needs to be
mopped then you mop it he saw himself as
a servant do you see yourself as a
servant came across another story I love
stories about Mother Teresa because she
was just full of wisdom and the story is
that she visited Phoenix in 1989 to open
a home for the poor and during her visit
she was into interviewed by the the
largest radio station in town and the
person had a private moment with her and
he asked if there was anything that he
can do thinking that she would say well
you could make an contribution to this
new home or maybe you could use the
media to help us to raise funds for this
new home but not mother Teresa
instead she replied in classic form yes
there is something that you can do find
someone that nobody else loves and love
them don't you love that find someone
else that no one else loves
and love them I uh I did two funerals
last weekend
and I was in my office early Saturday
and I was just trying to take a look at
my notes and and edit anything that I
needed to edit and trying to be quiet
for a few moments and and there were
folks coming in to take their
photographs and Nicky Price who I love
she's in the back and she was there and
a young girl came in and Nicky knocked
on the door and I don't know my first
reaction was to ignore it because I was
right in the middle anybody ever been
there where you don't feel like being
disturbed I just want to be honest for a
moment and but I knew that I was to get
up and to answer that door cuz you don't
ignore miss Nicky price you don't you
don't you know you know what I mean yeah
some folks shaking their head and there
was this beautiful young
african-american girl standing at the
door and she said pastor she needs help
how many of you know that ministry is
about interruptions and I had to get my
mind in the right attitude and I just
asked the Lord very quickly I said Lord
forgive me help me to be focused on what
this young lady needs and so I
introduced myself she came into the
office and she's 19 years old she has a
lot going on a lot going on in her life
and she just wanted prayer just needed
somebody to talk to she just needed a
moment where she experienced the love of
God anybody ever been there
and I began to talk to and I said before
we go on and you guys heard me say
things like this I said how are you
feeding yourself spiritually
and she says I don't know what you mean
past her I said dude have you eaten
today and she said yes I said what did
you eat and she told me what she ate I
said so how do you feed yourself
spiritually she said oh I get it she
said well I have it so I gave her a book
off my shelf Jesus is calling it's just
a little devotional book and I said
everyday you got to eat something to
feed yourself spiritually and then I
began to tell her that nobody can live
this life on their own you need Jesus
Christ in your life and I said I
guarantee you he can help you I
guarantee you that he can bless you in
ways that that's what you're looking for
she said how do I get that I said I'm so
glad you asked and there I was able to
talk to her and lead her to the Lord and
Nicky I want to just say thank you for
banging hard on my door that day because
that young lady walked out with Jesus
Christ in her life I don't know about
you but I want to be a servant if I get
to do this with the last breath of my
life I just want to be a servant of the
Lord sometimes we can get so busy so
caught up in our own world that we
forget what's important that's what
happened to James and John they got so
busy that they forgot what was important
they forgot what Jesus was trying to
teach them there's no greater job than
serving there's no greater job if there
was a greater job Jesus Jesus would have
done it there is no greater job than
serving the people who I admire are
always marked
by humility I think of the folks who
does who will do things with without
being asked to do it the folks who will
do it simply because it needs to be done
Jimmy sculpt Thorpe is that person now
if you talked to him he would tell you I
mean as a snake no you're not
he loves the Lord and you can find him
out power washing the building because
it's the right thing to do you could
find him cutting back the trees because
he doesn't want the trees to come into
the parking lot now you guys know that
there are other folks who who do things
but what I love about him he's never
looking for praise he doesn't because
it's the right thing to do
we need more Jimmy Scott thoughts in the
world when they made you they broke the
mold Jimmy I want to read another piece
of scripture for you
but I want to read it from the message
and what I like about the message
sometimes when I read the message it
it's like there's a book on the Shelf
that you can reach we can get to it we
can understand it and he simplifies it
so listen to the message let's just go
ahead and be what we were made to be
without inversely or privately comparing
ourselves with each other or trying to
be something that we're not if you
preach just preach just preach God's
message nothing else if you help just
help don't over don't take over if you
teach just stick to your teaching
and if you give encouraging guidance be
careful that you don't get bossy and if
you put in charge don't manipulate and
if you're called to give aid to people
and distress keep your eyes open and be
quick to respond if you work with the
disadvantage don't let yourself get
irritated with them or depress by them
keep a smile on your face love them from
the center of who you are don't fake it
run for dear life from evil hold on for
dear life to good be friends who love
deeply
practice playing second fiddle something
we don't want to do don't burn out keep
yourselves fueled and a flame the alert
servants of the master cheerfully
expectant don't quit in hard times pray
all the harder help needy Christians be
inventive and hospitality bless your
enemies no cursing under your breath
laugh with your happy friends when
they're happy share tears when they're
down get along with each other and don't
be stuck-up make friends with nobodies
let me say that again make friends with
nobodies don't be the great somebody
don't head back
discover beauty and everyone and if
you've got in you get along with
everyone don't insist on getting even
that's not for you to do I'll do the
judging says God I'll take care of you
that's what it means to be a servant dr.
King was talking to a group of high
school students and he wanted to
encourage them and he says it's if it
falls your lot to be a streetsweeper
going out and sweep streets like
Michelangelo painted pictures sweep
streets like Beethoven composed music
and Shakespeare wrote poetry sweep
streets so well that all of the hosts of
heaven and earth will have to pause and
say here lived a great street sweeper
who swept his job well he says if you
can't be the pine on the top of the hill
be the scrub in the little and the
valley but be the best little scrub on
the side of the rail if you can't be a
tree this for your Bush if it can't be a
highway just be a trail if you can't be
the Sun be a star for it isn't by size
that we went on we fail be the best of
whoever you are and as I was listening
to that I said I wondered if we put what
it means to be a servant and just added
that if it falls you lot to be a servant
going out and serve like Michelangelo
painted pictures like Shakespeare wrote
poetry sweep Street so well that all of
the hosts of heaven and earth will have
to pause and say he lived a great
servant who did their job well I don't
know about you but that's what I want
God to say when it's all over for me
well done thou good and faithful servant
well done and at the end of this speech
King asked a question you know the
common denominator for all of us is
death and he says when that day comes
from me
he says the question that I don't
believe that God will ask is how much of
how much money that you accumulate in
this lifetime that won't be the question
the question on that day won't be how
big was your house that won't be the
question I think the question won't be
what kind of automobiles that you drive
that won't be the question on that day
on that day God will not be concerned
with what your education was whether you
had a PhD or no deal but on that day he
says God's question will be did you
serve others did you try to make
somebody's else's life better
did you give did you serve remember what
he says the son of man did not come to
be served but he came to serve and to
give his life a ransom for many
you see on that day that's what God is
gonna ask us did you love somebody did
you help somebody along the way Derek
when they came to your office and they
knocked on the door did you open the
door did you try to help them did you
serve somebody oh my friends we've got
to be concerned about the people outside
of these doors are you with me this
morning that's going to be the question
did you love somebody did you help
somebody along the way did you do your
best to make a difference in the lives
of others
anybody can serve just takes a heart
generated by love full of grace anybody
can serve I think I want you to come and
close us in the word of Prayer close the
sermon that is don't you try to leave
let us pray
most gracious in Heavenly Father we
think you want today for this word lord
help us to serve to be humble servants
touch our hearts O God we thank you Lord
for your word says that when you were in
prison you did not come and visit me
when I was naked you did not clothe me
when I was hungry you did not give me
anything to eat lord help us help us to
visit those who are in prison clothe
those who are naked and feed those who
are hungry lord help us to be that
servant Lord to be like Christ not to be
served but to be the servant God we
thank you on today but we know that this
earth Lord is not our home but this this
is just a place that we're passing
through we know that heaven is our home
and God help us not to hold on to these
earthly possessions these material
things as if they mean life and death to
us but our life is in Christ our life is
more than just material things our life
is in the spirit of the Living God for
you give us the breath of life we thank
you on this morning
our second reading this morning is from
the book of Mark the seventh chapter
verse 24 through 37 says from there he
sent out and went away to the region of
Tyre he entered a house and did not want
anyone to know he was there yet he could
not escape notice but a woman whose
little daughter had an unclean spirit
immediately heard about him and she came
and bowed down at his feet now the woman
was a Gentile a Sarah Phoenician origin
she begged him to cast the demon out of
her daughter he said to her let the
children be fed first
for it is not fair to take the
children's food and throw it to the dogs
but she answered him sir even the dogs
under the table eat the children's
crumbs then he said to her for saying
that you may go the demon has left your
daughter so she went home found the
child lying on the bed and the demon
gone then he returned from the region of
Tyre and went by way to Sidon towards
the Sea of Galilee in the region of
Decapolis they brought to him a deaf man
who had an impediment in his speech and
they begged him to lay his hands on him
he took him aside in private away from
the crowd and put his fingers into his
ears and he spat and touched his tongue
then looking up to heaven he sighed and
said to him epoca that is be open and
immediately his ears were open his
tongue was released and he spoke
blessing
proclaimed it they were astounded beyond
measure saying he has done everything
well he even makes the death to hear and
the mute to speak this is the Word of
God for the people of God let us pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm grateful for the gift
of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to share with you Ruth Graham's
personal testimony that's Billy Graham's
daughter Ruth Graham and the reason why
I want to share it with you is because
it's raw it's authentic it's real and
sometimes before God can do a work in
our lives we've got to be honest and we
gotta get real anybody know what I'm
talking about
how many of you know that God won't
touch a lie but if we are honest then
God can do a great work so I want you to
hear her testimony she says I went
through a rough time after my first
divorce and I had a rebound marriage
that lasted for five weeks I became
afraid of him and I packed up what
little I had in my possession put it
into my station wagon and I fled I went
home to see my parents
they had told me not to marry this man
they told me to slow down to take my
time take it easy but I didn't listen
none of my children like the man but I
thought you know how we do this is my
life besides my children were almost
grown I was ready to have someone take
care of me and this was a man who
reportedly had come to Christ through my
father's ministry I thought he would be
safe but he wasn't so I packed up my
things and I went to see my mother and
my daddy and it was a two-day drive and
the fears multiplied with each mile I
drove
questions swirled in my mind what was
life going to be like now what had I
done to my children what was my life
going to be like what was I going to do
with the rest of my life
I really made a big mistake this time
and as I rounded the last bend into my
father's driveway he was standing there
and as I got out of the car he
immediately wrapped his arms around me
and he said welcome home my father is
not God but he showed me that day what
God is like because when we come to God
with our brokenness with our questions
with our wise and our how comes God
shows that he cares I've told this story
many times and there's still times I
can't talk I just cry
but I love the story changed my life
that experience with my father really
changed my focus
I now focus more on grace and that's the
heart of my ministry Ruth Graham &
Friends is to take those who have been
marginalized by the church and I believe
in the church I want to support the
church I want to come alongside of the
church but there are many people who
have been marginalized in the church and
I want to show them the grace of God and
we do we go in and we talk about
subjects that are not often tackled by
the church
things like pornography addiction anger
abuse depression divorce loneliness
people that experience these things I
mean if you are addicted to pornography
would you want to go to church and tell
someone that that's what you're addicted
to probably not and so we wanted to
address these issues with the
knowledgeable people and to offer the
healing grace of God because I believe
that that's what God did for me with my
father and it ends I submit to you that
Ruth Graham is a wounded healer she
realized her own brokenness and her need
for the grace of God and now she wants
others to experience that same grace I
think that's what a wounded healer is
the Gospel of Luke chapter 4 verses 18
through 20 where Jesus reads the scroll
from Isaiah
61 verse 1 the Spirit of the Lord is
upon me because he has anointed me to
proclaim good news to the poor he has
sent me to proclaim freedom for the
prisoners and recovery of sight for the
blind to set the oppressed free to
proclaim the year of the Lord's favor
this is God's promise to us which brings
peace to every heart yet peace in the
midst of struggle listen my friends we
all know pain whether it's the physical
pain of sickness injury handicap or an
impediment we all know pain we all know
the emotional pain of losing someone
that we love we know the pain of our
past some of us are stuck there we all
know the mental pain of constant worry
some of us know the pain so strong that
even our faith has been shaken but just
look in the newspaper turn on the TV and
the news and you'll see that around
every corner of the world they're
suffering and there's pain I'm simply
saying that pain is universal and
inevitable it's a part of the human
condition so what's the answer I'm so
glad you asked
thank you for asking I want you to
continue to listen to this story and see
how God Himself is a wounded healer and
how we too can become wounded healers
let me go back over the story again then
Jesus left the vicinity of tyre
and went to Sidon down to the Sea of
Galilee into the region of Decapolis and
there some people brought to him a man
who was deaf who could hardly talk and
they begged him to lay hands on him
notice Jesus takes him aside
sometimes what Jesus wants to do is not
everybody's business it's not your
business is not my business but he takes
him aside away from the crowd and he put
his fingers into the man's ears and he
spits and he touched the man's tongue
most importantly he looked up to heaven
with a deep sigh and he says epithet
which means be opened and at this the
man's ears were opened his tongue was
loosened and he began to speak plainly
my friends people who saw it says isn't
this amazing that this Jesus he does
everything well and they said he even
makes the death too here in the mute to
speak what I want you to hear this
morning and what I hope that you don't
miss and this gospel account is that
Jesus looked up to heaven and a gesture
of prayer expressing total reliance on
God the Father do we have total reliance
on God the Father this morning it's a
question that only you can answer came
across this great story and sterling
berry he asked this question do you
remember when you stopped calling your
dad daddy
he says I do when I was about six or
seven years old I remember being outside
with my dad he began a conversation with
our next-door neighbor which I
interrupted him by yelling hey daddy up
until then had always called my dad
daddy but when I called out daddy he
gave me a funny look and he and his
neighbor began to chuckle as though
calling him daddy was some kind of Baby
Talk I never called him daddy again
but the Hebrew word Abba is equivalent
of the English word daddy and unlike our
relationship with our earthly father our
Heavenly Father will never chuckle at us
calling him daddy thanks be to God
because we will never outgrow our
childlike dependence on God do we have
total reliance on God the Father
anybody few people went to Sunday school
praise the Lord Jesus epi' the prayer
was the opening up the removing of this
impediment of spiritual deafness and
then he says epithet
Jesus had taken the first step and I
think he put the his fingers in the
man's ear to say I know what the problem
is
he touched this tongue to say I know
what your problem is how many of you
know that God knows everything there is
to know about each and every one of us
that he knows what's going on in our
lives every problem he knows where our
stumbling blocks are he knows what ails
you and I he know
fools us from the inside out he knows us
better than anyone
just like when God spoke to Jeremiah he
says before you were formed in your
mother's womb I knew you
God knew us even before conception Isaac
he knows me better than anybody knows me
he knows everything there there is to
know about me and he accepts me Jesus
continued by looking up to heaven to
show this man where his help was routed
in essence to verify to him that Jesus
is no ordinary person he's not just a
prophet he's not just a teacher a rabbi
but he is the son of God and here this
man only meeting Jesus a few moments ago
he knows that he is the Messiah the
person whom the prophet Isaiah spoke of
Isaiah says it this way when he comes
the eyes of the blind will be opened and
the ears of the Deaf will be unstopped
the lame will leap like a deer and the
tongue of the mute will shout for the
for joy that day scripture was fulfilled
fulfilled Pope Benedict said because
Humanity is inwardly deaf and mute as a
result of sin God became man in the
person of Christ so that we would be
able to hear the voice of God the voice
of love speaking to our hearts and
learned to speak the language of his
love so that we can heal others I call
it
says therefore everyone who hears these
words of mine and puts them into
practice it's like a wise man who built
his house upon a rock the rains came
down the streams rose the winds blew and
it beat upon the house yet it did not
fall because his foundation was on iraq
is jesus your rock this morning it's
just a question that all of us could
answer came across this story about
fanny crosby and she was known as the
queen of gospel songwriters and she was
known as the mother of modern
congregational singing in America she's
probably and most of our hymnals some of
her gospel songs that are well-known
include past minato gentle Savior
blessed assurance which is my favorite
Jesus is tenderly calling you gentle
Savior blessed assurance praise him
praise him rescue the perishing to God
be the glory and they are hosts of many
more but because she was blind and
unable to work a traditional job Fanny
Crosby relied on the cells of her hymns
her poems and her songwriting for
financial income and despite her
popularity there were often times when
money was short
on one particular day she had a pressing
need for $5.00 it may not sound like a
lot of money to you today but in the
1820s $5.00 was a lot of money I love
when I give my son $5.00 he's like boy I
got a lot of money and so that's how she
felt though that some was not a huge
amount she didn't have any prospects of
getting the money so she began to pray
for God's help and only a few minutes
had passed after she prayed that there
was a knock on her door and a man came
to the door and he gave her five dollars
exactly the amount that she had prayed
for and she wrote I have no way of
accounting for this except to believe
that God answered my prayer he put it
into the heart of this good man to bring
me the money I had prayed for my first
thought was it is so wonderful the way
that the Lord loves me and he leads me
and not long after this blind wounded
woman wrote these words all the way my
Saviour leads me whatever high have to
ask beside can I doubt his tender mercy
who through life has been my guide
heavenly peace
divine is comfort here by faith in him
to dwell for I know whatever befalls me
Jesus do with all things well for I know
whatever befalls me Jesus does
everything well I submit to you
that Fanny Crosby was a wounded healer
when I think of a wounded healer I think
of my friend Jim Chapel some of you may
not know it and he may not want me to
tell it but I'm gonna tell it anyway
that Jim helps a woman who's blind and
he helps her with all of her financial
business he has been an advocate for her
where she stays she's in a nursing home
and he's had to go and plead her case
but if you were to ask him why he does
it he would simply say this I don't need
to be praised for that but when I think
of what God has done for me that's the
very lease that I can do for someone
else it's the right thing to do there
are two other ladies in here that I
called the dynamic dual and I'm gonna
get pinched in smack even as I say this
but I'm gonna say it anyway
gene will you protect me all right I got
some protection when I think of wounded
healers think of Virginia Randall and
Mary Ann Walton who they do things with
without wanting to be noticed they just
do it and they visit people they send
cards they come back and report to me
about people that they've seen they do
amazing things behind the scenes and
they don't want to be praised for what
they do it was on one occasion I was
meeting with Mary Ann and a young lady
came to the door and I brought her into
the same
where we were and Mary Ann began to
minister to her right there in front of
me and it was amazing because it was
like watching God in action
it was pure love I began to weep but if
you would ask these women why do they do
what they do they would say it's nothing
great about what I've done it was the
right thing to do but when I think of
what God has done for me that's the very
least that I can do when I think about
wounded healers I think about Marilyn
Bell and Frank Bell they don't like
being noticed they do stuff behind the
scenes and they'll do something like
bring me food lying cards to make sure
that if there's anybody who needs a meal
that anyone that comes to me for help
that the help is there they've done this
countless times they don't want to be
praised it's just the right thing to do
but if you were to ask they would say
when I think about what God has done for
me this is the very least that I can do
I talked about Bill Blankenship this
morning one of the things that Bill
Blankenship has done for over 30 years
he puts a cup of water at the pulpit for
the preacher one over here for me one
over there for Isaac he's been doing
that for over 30 years
I was talking to Isaac about it this
morning
what did you say Isaac sometimes I don't
think that anybody realizes the small
things that that water sometimes comes
in handy
Amen sometimes you can be app in your
throat it's
you start to cough you need that water
to what you're through and here Bill
Blankenship said the least I can do is
be faithful to bringing a cup of water
to the pastures talking about being a
wounded healer and we all can be wounded
healers in our own way so here's your
homework y'all I know you was going to
get a homework assignment today when you
go out to lunch today I want you to talk
about what it means in your life to be a
wounded healer and I want you to think
about who you can share the love and the
grace of God with just like Ruth Graham
did for us in her testimony you know
what I love about Ruth Graham's
testimony because sometimes when people
go through a divorce they feel broken
sometimes they feel as though it's their
fault and they don't know where life
begins and life ends but what I love
about her is that she began again and
she moved on without that old goat I
mean that old man she moved on without
him and she began to live her life she
became a wounded healer what I love
about Ruth story is that she's working
with people who are fighting depression
people who are fighting addictions she's
working with people who even fight with
pornography and divorce she says I want
them to experience the same grace that
I've experienced and we all have the
power to do that
amen Isaac would you close us in the
word of Prayer
let us pray lord I thank you this
morning and I ask you to have mercy on
us I said have mercy on us O Lord
because sometimes life has a way of
giving us wounds Lord sometimes life has
a way of beating us down sometimes life
has a way Lord of just taking the air
out of us but we know God that you are
the one that we must look to you are the
one that is able to lift us up and
strengthen us you are the one that has
all power in your hands and God we thank
you on today father help us not to just
look on our own selves and what we need
but look on the needs of others and open
our hearts to others to help them Lord
in their times of struggle in their
times of need
because sometimes we go through things
in our lives and sometimes we can only
look at ourselves and how we are hurting
but our hurt is in your hand our healing
is in your hand you are a God of
restoration and you are able to restore
us and father we thank you for those who
have been wounded and who were able to
get back up because of you because of
your love because of your
how scripture reading today comes from
the Gospel of Mark chapter 7 verses 24
through 37 hear the word of God from
there he set out and he went away to a
region of Tyre and he entered a house
and he did not want anyone to know that
he was there yet he could not escape
notice but a woman whose little daughter
had an unclean spirit immediately heard
about him and she came and bowed at his
feet
now the woman was a Gentile of
syrophoenician origin she begged him to
cast the demon out of her daughter and
he said to her let the children be fed
first for it is not fair to take the
children's food and to throw it to dogs
but she answered him sir even the dogs
under the table eat the children's
crumbs then he said to her for saying
that
you may go the demon has left your
daughter and so she went home and found
the child lying on the bed in the demon
God then he returned from the region of
Tyre and went by the way of sit on
towards the Sea of Galilee in the region
of the capitalists they brought to him a
deaf man who had an impediment in his
speech and they begged him to lay his
hands on him he took him aside in
private away from the crowd and he put
his fingers into his ears and he spat
and he touched his tongue then looking
up to heaven he sighed and he said to
him epithet is be opened and immediately
his ears and his tongues were released
and he spoke to
but the more he ordered them the more
jealously they proclaimed it they were
astounded beyond measure saying he has
done everything well and he even makes
the Deaf to hear and the mute to speak
may the Lord had a rich blessing to the
hearing of God's holy word made sink
deep down and bring forth much fruit the
Word of God for the people of God
kent nerburn on a most profound cab ride
20 years ago I drove a cab for a living
one time I arrived in the middle of the
night for a pickup at a building that
was dark except for a single light in a
ground-floor window under these
circumstances many drivers would just
honk once or twice wait a minute and
then drive away but I had seen too many
impoverished people who depended on
taxis as their only means of
transportation unless the situation
smelled of danger I always went to the
door this passenger might be someone who
needs my assistance I reasoned to myself
so I walked to the door and knocked just
a minute answered a frail elderly voice
I could hear something being dragged
across the floor after a long pause the
door opened a small woman in her 80s
stood before me she was wearing a print
dress and a pillbox hat with a veil
pinned on it like somebody out of a
1940s movie by her side was a small
nylon suitcase the apartment looked as
if no one had lived in it for years all
the furniture was covered with sheets
there were no clocks on the walls no
knickknacks or utensils on the counters
in the corner was a cardboard box filled
with photos and glassware would you
carry my bag out to the car she said I
took the suitcase to the cab then
returned to assist the woman she took my
arm and we walked slowly toward the curb
she kept thanking me for my kindness
it's nothing I told her I just tried to
treat my passengers the way I would want
my mother treated
oh you're such a good boy she said when
we got in the cab she gave me an address
and then asked could you drive through
downtown it's not the shortest way I
answered quickly oh I don't mind she
said I'm in no hurry
I'm on my way to hospice I looked in the
rearview mirror
her eyes were glistening I don't have
any family left she continued and the
doctor says I don't have very long I
quietly reached over and shut off the
meter what route would you like me to
take I asked for the next two hours we
drove through the city she showed me the
building where she had once worked as an
elevator operator we drove through the
neighborhood where she and her husband
had lived when they were newlyweds
she had me pull up in front of a war
Furniture Warehouse that had once been a
ballroom where she had gone
dancing as a girl sometimes she'd asked
me to slow in front of a particular
building or corner and would sit staring
into the darkness saying nothing as the
first hint of Sun was creasing the
horizon she suddenly said I'm tired
let's go now we drove in silence to the
address she had given me it was a low
building like a small convalescent home
with a driveway that passed under a
portico two orderlies came out to the
cab as soon as we pulled up they were
solicitous and intent watching her every
move they must have been expecting her I
opened the trunk and took this small
suitcase to the door the woman was
already seated in a wheelchair how much
do I owe you she asked reaching into her
purse nothing I
you have to make a living she answered
there are other passengers almost
without thinking I bent and gave her a
hug she held on to me tightly you gave
an old woman a little moment of joy she
said thank you I squeezed her hand then
walked into the dim morning light behind
me a door shut it was the sound of the
closing of a life I didn't pick up any
more passengers that shift
I drove aimlessly lost and thought for
the rest of that day I could hardly talk
what if that woman had gotten an angry
driver or one who was impatient to end
his shift what if I had refused to take
that run or had honked once and then
driven away on a quick review I don't
think that I have done anything more
important in my life we're conditioned
to think that our lives revolve around
great moments but great moments often
catch us unaware beautifully wrapped in
what others may consider a small moment
I was a wounded healer I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with that thought wounded healers let us
pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm truly grateful for
the gift of salvation I am a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
may the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ
I pray amen this is sort of a an unusual
story when we look at this particular
text Jesus is doing ministry the crowds
are swelling and it seems as though he's
tired he's trying to to get away but the
more he tries to find a quiet place it
seems like folks seem to know exactly
where he is and this woman she hears
about Jesus and she's determined she's
going to find him
what I love about this woman is that she
has tenacity and we need that we
probably need more of that in our lives
she's not going to take no for an answer
says that she entered into the house
where he was it doesn't say she was
invited I didn't read that in the text
but it says she entered into the house
where he was this woman is amazing she's
not of Jewish descent she's a woman and
a woman in that culture did not approach
a devout Jew let alone Jesus but she
came to him begging on behalf of her
daughter she arrives and she is bold in
her request I don't know if you can be
humble and bold at the same time but
this woman was on a mission and I love
it
and she says Jesus I want you to heal my
daughter she is demon-possessed but I
want you to heal
her I want to make this clear for us
this morning she's a Gentile she's a
pagan she is a woman she is Phoenician
and she is bold and all the things that
would disqualify her from even
approaching Jesus she pushes to the wind
and she boldly goes to Jesus this woman
is on a mission and what I love about
her is her tenacity let me digress for a
minute
too often I get calls like this and I'm
not saying in just this appointment but
these are the kind of calls that I
receive well you know the choir is not
singing me happy these days so I think
I'm gonna leave the church I get calls
like that I've gotten calls that well we
don't do the Apostles Creed every week
and I think I'm gonna leave the church I
get calls like that and I wondered if
people just had a little bit of tenacity
or stick-to-itiveness it's almost like
we don't even have denomination or
loyalty anymore one thing happens and
we're out of the door one things happens
and I'm going to put my tied somewhere
else as if the pastor gets you're tied I
wish we had some of this woman's
stick-to-itiveness to keep on keeping on
even when it doesn't seem like it's
working in our favor to keep on pushing
to not take no for an answer but to
trust God in all things remember she
enters the house without an invitation
and she makes her requests before G
this woman is on a mission if every one
of us represented a thousand candle
light power do you know what we could
accomplish for the Lord if we just went
out into the world on one Accord do you
realize what we could accomplish if we
had some of this tenacity to never give
up but to trust God through all things
and that he's gonna work it out I don't
know about you my friends but everything
that's happening in the United Methodist
Church I'm not giving up hope I'm gonna
use me ology as my grandmother would say
and I'm gonna trust in God's Word and
I'm gonna trust God anybody else got a
few people wonderful wonderful but this
woman she leaves us a wonderful example
and what I like about her is she's a
mother who would do anything for her
daughter there's some of you who would
do anything for your children she
doesn't care about cultural barriers she
doesn't think about being timid or
brazen all of that's irrelevant she just
needs her prayers and said I imagined
that this woman went to doctors went to
people who were educated and probably
went to maybe even the Pharisees to help
her with her daughter but she heard that
Jesus is coming into town and she says
I'm going where he is and I'm going to
get the help that I need listen to how
Jesus responds she's down on her knees
and she's begging and he says first let
the children eat all they want for is
not right to take the children's bread
and to toss it to the dogs
on the surface this really appears to be
an insult some of us would have packed
up right then says all right fine Jesus
that's how you feel fine that's not what
she did and I imagine that Jesus is
looking to see how she's going to
respond on the surface it appears to be
an insult however in the New Testament
most dogs were scavengers Wow dirty and
unclean and in Jesus day that's what the
Jews called the Gentiles they called
them unclean they called them dogs so as
what Jesus saying - is it really an
insult I think it's more a parable a
word that means metaphor remember this
is a mother who has nothing to lose
Jesus is saying you know how families
eat we got to feed the children first
and then we feed the pets it's not right
to violate that order and if we go to
Matthew's account of this incident he
gives us a slightly longer version of
Jesus answer and which Jesus explains
his meaning
I was sent only to the lost sheep of
Israel he concentrated his ministry on
Israel for all sorts of reasons he was
sent to show Israel that he was the
fulfillment of all scriptural promises
he was sent to show that he was the
fulfillment of all the prophets the
priests in the kings and he was sent to
show that he was the fulfillment of even
the temple it's not in the
texts but after Jesus was resurrected he
immediately said to his disciples go to
all the nations his words then are not
an insult but what he was saying - this
woman was please understand there's an
order here I'm going to Israel first and
then I'll come to the Gentiles so I'll
get to you but maybe later but not right
now that's not my mission but this woman
had tenacity she was not going to give
up the help that she wanted was right in
front of her and she wasn't going to let
it go listen to her response yes Lord
she replied but even the dogs under the
table eat the children's crumbs in other
words yes Lord
the puppies eat from the table - but I'm
here from mine I'm here for my child to
make sure that she has what she needs
Jesus told the parable he challenged her
but what he said in her response in
essence it's okay I understand that I'm
not from the chosen people I get it I
get it that I don't worship your God but
I do today I get what you're saying but
I believe that there's a place at the
table for everyone and I still have a
humble request don't you like her
tenacity never give up never give in if
we had more of that in our church today
where might we be
let me digress for a minute what's
amazing about this woman is that she
does not take an offence at what Jesus
says and she doesn't get upset or get on
a high horse she doesn't say I have a
right to come to you and to ask for this
and you've got to do it Jesus but what
she does and she says I have no right to
come to you I'm not qualified to come to
you but my daughter needs to help you're
the one who can do this only you can do
this give me what I don't deserve not
based on me but based on your goodness
and then Jesus told her for such a reply
you may go the demon has left your
daughter she went home and she found her
daughter lying on the bed in the demon
gone can you say tenacity we need a
little bit more of it in our world my
friends I gave my life to the Lord at 19
and I told the Lord that I didn't want
to fight anymore and didn't want to
fight in the streets like I had been
doing acting like a fool and God saved
me and when he saved me I asked God to
cleanse me from a sharp tongue from
using bad language but let me tell you
what happened anytime God
something for you know that the enemy is
right there I keep telling you that the
enemy's job is to kill steal and destroy
and what the enemy said to me is you
lived your life in such a way you're not
worthy of God's love has the enemy ever
told anybody that and I was listening to
the enemy and the enemy was saying how
can you live one way and now you're
saying you were God's man that was hard
to reconcile and let me tell you what
God did for me a year later I'm working
in the mall at a Hallmark card and
greeting store I was security in the
stock worker and the young lady's name
was Linda she fell behind the register
in pain we called 911 to the hospital
and they found out that Linda had a a
bleeding ulcer it was really bad they
tried to manage the pain but they knew
they couldn't go in and do this surgery
because of how she was bleeding so they
kept her in the hospital for a few days
and then they sent her home
so that she could heal a little bit so
that they can do what they needed to do
well I had a dream and I like to share
it with you in the dream I was walking
down the street and I went to Clem on
Avenue which is the block that Linda
lived on and there in my dream God said
that's her husband I walked up to her
husband I'm afraid and I said my name is
Derrick I work with Linda God send me to
pray for your wife and he told me that
she would be healed the husband was
talking to two neighbors he stopped what
he was doing he gave me this look and he
said come with me we went into the house
he opened the door Mae had turned their
den into a bedroom because she couldn't
negotiate the steps
trying to make everything easy for and
when I we got into the room where she
was he told her that I was there and she
was in the fetal position in a lot of
pain and he says pastor you do what you
got to do I wasn't a pastor at this time
but that's what he called me and I went
to the foot of her bed and I said Lord
I'm here and then I woke up can I tell
you what happened when I woke up I knew
it wasn't just a dream I knew it was a
mission and so I decided to get dressed
I showered first I did a ditch shower
first
and to get dressed and to go to Linda's
house and just as I got the claremont
avenue there was her husband standing
there with the two neighbors just as I
had seen it in my dream and I went up to
him I introduced myself I told him who I
was and I told him that God sent me to
pray for Linder and that she would be
healed he told his neighbors goodbye and
he walked me to the house he opened the
door just like in the dream he takes me
to the den and he says pastor you do
what you got to do lend to the pastor's
here I said Linda's Derek she was in the
fetal position in pain just as I had
seen it in my dream and I said Linda God
sent me to pray for you and he told me
that you would be healed today do you
believe that and she said yes I said I
want you to put your mind on a place and
time when you felt the love of God the
most when you felt secure by God's love
said now I want you to open your hand so
that you can receive what God has for
you and I walk to the end of the bed
friends I didn't know what to say I'm 20
years old
I've only been saved a year and I go to
the foot of bed and I said Lord I'm here
you tell me what to say and as
felt the spirit leading me I began to
pray and when I finished praying Linda
was sleep sound to sleep and I tiptoed
out and I left I had about 15 blocks to
walk to my job and when I got to the job
I got busy and I wasn't thinking about
it and you know how we do and now it's
about three or four o'clock I said you
know what I didn't check on Linda let me
call her and check on her I dialed her
number her husband answered the phone I
said this is Dirk he said I know who you
are he was so excited I said what's
going on he says dirt you won't believe
what happened I said well then tell me
he said when Linda woke up from her nap
she wasn't in pain she went upstairs and
she showered and she got dressed and she
came downstairs and she made breakfast
for the entire family got excited I said
oh man this is awesome let me talk to
her
he said well she's not here I said well
where is she he said she did her hair
and she's out shopping let me tell you
what happened Linda goes back to the
doctors and they run a battery of tests
on her and cultures and you know how
they do and they found no sign of her
ever having an ulcer God had healed her
now I didn't share that story so that
you can line up at my office door for me
to pray for you and for me to heal you
I have no healing power I didn't heal
Linda God healed her but here's what I
want you to hear God used that
opportunity for me to understand
something the same hands that hurt he
use to heal and the same mouses we're
the same mouth where curses came out of
my mouth he used me to an
he told me tarik I'm gonna use you and
he did the same hands in the same mouth
I read this piece on Maya Angelou and
they were interviewing her and they
wanted Maya Angelou to talk about evil
the book is called light at the core of
darkness and what Maya Angelou says was
very interesting she says you know when
I talk to Christians and I talk about
evil Christian says you know evil is
over there and it can't be in us at
times she says in our hands we have the
power to hurt and we have the power to
heal I realized that day my friends that
God could use me to be a blessing to
help to encourage that God seasoned my
mouth with grace and when I go to the
hospitals I always say Lord I don't know
what to say
but you give me the words and I'll say
them and I'd like to believe that those
who have met with are encouraged what I
want you to hear is maybe the enemy's
telling you that you're not a wounded
healer power to hurt the power to heal
that John teaches some something great
when we think about this healing or how
to approach Jesus this is the confidence
in which we can approach God that if we
ask anything according to his will the
scripture says that he will heal us and
what John wants us to understand that
God still is in the healing business
even today I like James where James had
to say James says it this way are any of
you sick you should call on the elders
of the church to come and to pray over
you anoint you with oil in the name of
the Lord and such a prayer offered in
faith will heal the sick and the Lord
will make you well my friends I'm a
wounded healer and so are you
you have the power to lift up another
you have the power to encourage somebody
you have the power to make a difference
in the life of somebody else this God
took me from the streets of Jersey City
I've been doing this for over 30 years
and I promised him that I would do it in
his name that I would go wherever he
would send me he sent me to Providence
United Methodist Church what a great
church this is the best appointment I've
ever had God's honest truth but I want
you to join me in understanding that you
too are wounded healer that you too can
make a difference in the lives of others
Shawn I'm so impressed with what you're
doing that you're making a life I mean
changing lives by what you're doing
Wendy thank you for what you're doing
with partners because you're making a
difference in the lives of others we've
done this program two weeks ago the end
of the month hump and then we were out
in the community praying with people
giving them food to help them get to the
end of the month
I can't tell you how many people said
thank you we had a few bags left over
and I went to sheets and there I saw
this african-american woman very
pregnant a bunch of kids at the car and
I told her that I'm from Providence and
I said can I be a blessing to you I said
we've got some grocery and I said I want
you to see it for yourself I opened the
back of the trunk and she said you have
no idea I was just praying and asking
God for some help and here you showed up
with groceries Providence what a great
opportunity that's before us to make a
difference in the life of someone else
you too can be a wounded healer
let us pray god I get overwhelmed when I
think about your goodness when I think
about my life walking around aimlessly a
sense of purpose but to see how much you
love me enough to save my wretched soul
to educate me to give me this
opportunity to serve you
I'm so grateful Lord Providence is an
incredible church and I pray that we
read what reach those who you've put in
our way
not that we'll build it in that they are
come but that we might even find the
least the lost and the forgotten because
the Great Commission to make disciples
of Jesus Christ for the transformation
of this world father we thank you for
all of the saints who've come before us
who understood that oh I think about Bob
Fitch and and he was one of our great uh
sure's and even though he can't be here
with us
Bob fish that said that we ought to uh
sure so well that those who we come in
contact would feel your love give him a
hug that might be the only hug they ever
get he said so many people have gone
before us trying to teach us how to
serve you helping us to know that we are
wounded healers dear God bless our sick
and I'll shut it pray that you might
meet every need on this day needs that
are spoking in those unspoken and now
let us say that powerful powerful prayer
that Jesus taught his disciples our
Father who are in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom comes will be done on
earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those
trespassed against us and lead us
the first chapter verses 17 through 27
every generous act of giving with every
perfect gift is from above coming down
from the Father of lights with whom
there is no variation or shadow due to
change in fulfillment of his own purpose
he gave us birth by the word of truth so
that we would become a kind of
firstfruits of his creatures you must
understand this my beloved let everyone
be quick to listen slow to speak slow to
anger for your anger does not produce
God's righteousness
therefore rid yourselves of all
sordidness and rank growth of wickedness
and welcome with meekness the implanted
word that has the power to save your
souls but be doers of the word and not
merely hearers who deceive themselves
for if any are hears of the word and not
doers they are like those who look at
themselves in a mirror for they look at
themselves and on going away immediately
forget what they were like but those who
look into the perfect law the law of
Liberty and persevere being not here's
who forget but doers who act they will
be blessed in their doing if anything
they are religious and do not bridle
their tongues but deceive their hearts
their religion is worthless religion
that is pure and undefiled before God
the Father is this to care for orphans
and widows in their distress and to keep
oneself unstained by the world this is
the Word of God for the people of God
let us pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm truly grateful but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not mean that they might hear you and
not me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
John Wooden says it like this if you're
not making mistakes then you're not
doing anything then he says I'm positive
that a doer makes mistakes then I came
across this one be a doer avoid being a
don't err you know I don't do this
anymore and I don't do that y'all know
what I'm talking about right don't be a
donor and then simon Sinek says it like
this avoid those who don't but get
around those who do Providence 13 and 20
says it like this he that walketh with
wise men shall be wise but the companion
of fools shall be destroyed listen your
beliefs don't make you a better person
your behavior does maybe you didn't hear
me I'm gonna say it again
your beliefs don't make you a better
person your behavior does I believe that
there are many Christians who have
Bibles in their homes but I believe that
there are many Bibles Colet
and us because those folks don't open
them to read them and apply them to
their lives be doers of the word and not
hearers only so here are my rhetorical
questions and I don't want you to answer
them I want you to think about them are
you a churchgoer or a disciple of Christ
are you just a hearer of the word only
or are you a doer of the word are you a
Christian by name only or you a
Christian because of your actions
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought become a doer
of God's Word one of the things I love
about James the book of James is James
doesn't mince his words
I was talking to Isaac about James this
morning and Isaac put it this way he
says I love James because James will
just slap you upside the head to make
sure that you get his word and I believe
he's going to do that for us this
morning
I want you to know that this book was
was written for believers this was not
for those who don't believe but this is
for those who claim to love God to want
to serve God and it's a great guide for
how we are to live our lives how we are
to walk in faith so let's examine what
James has to say to us this morning Jane
says when we hear God's word without
doing what His Word says then it leads
to self-deception listen do not merely
listen to the word but become a doer
note that James is not devaluing hearing
hearing the Word of God is important
Romans 10 in verse 17 says it like this
faith comes by hearing and hearing the
Word of God but what is James talking
about I'm glad you asked he says it this
way
hearing alone is not enough hearing
alone is not enough so Alan when you
leave your socks on the floor and your
wife has to pick him up for the 15th
time and she says Alan would you please
pick up your socks do you hear the hope
in her complaint do you pick up your
socks all right all right
mere hearing it's not enough because it
doesn't lead us to action and James says
be careful because it could lead to
deception the epitome of deception is
when we get out of the shower and as we
stand on the scale to weigh ourselves we
hold our stomach in it's holding our
stomach in we're gonna weigh a little
less anybody know what I'm talking about
he says so we can see the scale
one comedian said that some folks told
him that he needed to lose weight but he
didn't want to hear that and he thought
that he was fine but he took a shower
and when he finished showering he went
to bend over to dry off and he said
about a half a cup of water fell out of
his navel and it hit the floor and it
was loud and he knew that he needed to
lose weight when I got out of the Marine
Corps I started picking up weight and I
didn't realize it but I had gained maybe
two sizes in my pants and it didn't look
right but you know how we get as men
when we find something comfortable
anybody know what I'm talking about so
my wife said we need to go shopping for
some pants I didn't know what she really
meant and so I tried on 38 I was a 34
when I went into the Marine Corps but
now I'm a 38 at that time and so I tried
on 38 and I said yeah baby they look
good this look real good I think they're
all right and she said well humor me try
these on and they were 40s and when I
put them on I said baby that fits real
good what size is that anybody ever
deceived themselves and this is what
James is saying James says sometimes
it's like looking into the mirror but
when we walk away we forget what we look
like you see the Word of God can reveal
to us the good the bad the indifferent
about ourselves so that we can do
something about it
so hearing the Word of God and being a
doer of the word of God very different
I've got two witnesses I want them to
come now my witnesses have you come
would you take the mic tell me the
difference between hearing the Word of
God and being a doer of the word of God
and give me an example from your your
experience I became a Christian at the
age of nine so I've been a Christian
meaning a baptized Christian for a very
very long time but for about the first
twenty five years of our marriage Gary
and I were not actively participating in
our faith it wasn't until we came to
Providence United Methodist Church that
we truly learned what it meant to become
active practicing Christians the first
year I was at Providence I took my very
first disciple one class and you all
know how I feel about the disciple
program the second year when disciple
came around I was actually asked to
facilitate the class it's like Lord I'm
not ready for this I'm not a teacher I
don't know the Bible well enough said
trust me throughout the time that we've
been here well let me back up just a
little bit at the very end of the first
disciple class one of the things you do
is make a commitment a personal
commitment of how you're going to apply
what you've learned in disciple and
unbeknownst to just about anybody else
my prayer was okay Lord I'm ready if you
will lead me and if you will show me
what you want to do I will obey be
careful what you ask for shortly
thereafter Jerry and I joined we were
involved in a Sunday School class and so
my first step of faith was I was asked
to be the class president from their
facilitator of disciple from their
committee members from their lay leader
and as lay leader I was given the
privilege and the honor to actual
I deliver a message on Sundays to the
congregation now this is all within a
matter of two or three years time three
years prior before all this happened if
you told me I would ever have been in a
position to stand in front of the
congregation and speak to them I would
have probably laughed but I have to tell
you how that very first time of speaking
in front of the congregation came about
Ralph Goodman was the pastor at the time
and when he asked me to be lay leader he
said doesn't involve much just need to
lead fill in if I have to be gone and
left it at that well at 10 o'clock on a
Saturday evening I get a phone call that
said that Pastor Goodman's father-in-law
was in the hospital in Florida and not
doing well in he and his wife we're
making a mad dash trip to Florida to be
with him could I could I lead service
the next day
needless to say prayer became immediate
father tell me what you want me to do
I'm not prepared it's 10 o'clock
Saturday night service is the very next
morning I've had no time to prepare I've
never led service before God said trust
me and obey and I did I got up the very
next morning and was starting to do my
disciple reading and I happened to open
my Bible and it fell to the passage in
Psalms about what the attributes of a
mother and it just so happened that that
Sunday was Mother's Day so it gave me
the material that I needed and God led
me and it
a very special morning but in every
single step of the way when I have
listened and when I have been obedient
God has blessed me so richly I would
never have had the opportunity to touch
another life someone sitting in the
congregation that may have been touched
by something that I said if I hadn't
listened and if I hadn't obeyed it would
never have happened and I would have
missed out on the blessing amen thank
you
my other witness good morning
I happen to be blessed I got to go
through disciple class with Laura Griggs
and also Laura lover and also with Bobby
vest I've taken all four disciples and
they are wonderful throughout the years
I've been in Bible studies in this
church on and off and they have blessed
me also I happen to have a Bible that is
the John Wesley Study Bible and in one
in the Bible there is a core application
that they've put that's John Wesley's
every few pages they put this these core
applications and this one is faith and
works it says for many faiths and works
are two aspects of Christian living that
seem to be in opposition to each other
but not for Wesley for him faith and
good works are united in God's love God
expresses God's love for us and their
life and Ministry of Jesus Christ and we
in turn express our response to God's
love through our good deeds particularly
those in need Wesley identifies God's
love in action as works of mercy and
works of piety works of piety our
personal practices that enrich our
personal Christian journey while works
of mercy are our systematic practice of
loving our neighbor through our deeds
and through our identification with our
neighbor faith and works represent the
core of the Christian life I have a
friend who had back surgery last month
and things went fairly well she needed
someone to come spend the night with her
in the hospital and I'm a night owl so
if you need anybody just call me I went
to the hospital and sat with her and she
is a Christian and we prayed and she
said you don't know what peace this
gives me just you being there I didn't
do anything medical I ran and got water
or you know got the nurse a couple of
times but it was a blessing to be at her
feet to be able to do things that she
could not do this pass a week ago she
called and said can you take me to the
hairdresser poor thing hadn't had her
hair fixed oh no honey they all
shampooed in so many days well she had
back surgery she can't bend over or get
in the shower you know and wash her hair
so I took her out to get her hair fixed
she called Friday she said would you
happen to be available Saturday I need
to get my hair done not a problem we
went out there it took less than an hour
for the beautician to wash her hair and
get it fixed I listen to the Lord and
when he says gene that person needs help
I respond as he would respond I hope and
pray whether it's sending cards to our
shut-ins bringing you a meal praying for
our congregation praying for our pastors
and their families praying for two
school teachers we can pray any time I
pray at the drive-thru sometimes going
through Burger King the people that are
in front of me I pray for the people
behind me it's not about me it's about
my Lord how can I serve Him that day in
that particular time I went through a
checkout yesterday a ladies
said her cousin was really sick the
checkout lady was a Christian she was
amazing her name was Mary I think she's
an angel
and she just stopped right there we're
going to do this with prayer it just
touched my heart that she was not shy
about sharing her faith and praying for
that lady in that cousin it's not about
us it's about our Lord Jesus Christ
sometimes I think we walk around
thinking he's not looking he doesn't
know he's with us he's in our next
breath
god bless trust and obey let's give them
a big hand
I came across this and it was entitled
whose side is God on says during the
Civil War Abraham Lincoln met with a
group of ministers for prayer breakfast
Lincoln was not a churchgoer but he had
deep abiding faith and at time some
people called his faith unorthodox at
one point one of the minister said mr.
president let us pray that God is on our
side
and Lincoln's response so far greater
inside he says no gentlemen let us pray
that we are on God's side Lincoln
reminded those ministers that religion
is not a tool by which we get God to do
what we want but it's an invitation to
open ourselves to being into doing what
God wants my question for you this
morning is have you become a doer of
God's work I came up
the story about the Eiffel Tower it's
one of the most recognized landmarks on
the planet built as a grand entrance to
an 1889 World's Fair the tower receives
thousands of visitors every year and
it's a favorite spot for romantic
rendezvous but when it was built there
was ferocious opposition a group of
leading artists and writers including
the author of three musketeers Alexandre
Dumas filed a petition that read listen
to this
we the writers painters sculptors
architects and lovers of the beauty of
Paris do protests with all vigor and all
indignation in the name of French tastes
an endangered French art and history
against the useless and the monstrous
Eiffel Tower but you know the story that
the Eiffel Tower was erected in 1889 and
its praise now but the person who wanted
to erect it had to stick to their guns
stick to their values even when no one
else believed in them and I think it's a
good reminder of how we two need to
stick to our values even when it may not
be culturally okay we need to stick to
our values we need to stick to what the
of God says even when it makes some
folks uncomfortable are you with me this
morning some of you might have an idea
of what I'm talking about
become a doer of God's Word listen to
what Jesus says and Luke chapter 6
verdes verse 46 but why do you call me
Lord Lord and not do what I say to do we
say that we're believers we say that we
love them but Jesus is saying to this
particular crowd why do you call me
teacher why do you call me master why do
you call me Lord but you have no
intentions of doing the things that I
say to do are you even interested in
obeying my word James says don't be a
hearer of the word only but become a
doer one of my favorite passages in the
Bible is Psalm 1 and it says blessed is
the man who does not walk in the counsel
of the wicked nor standeth in the way of
sinners nor sit in the seat of mockers
but his delight is in the law of the
Lord and on his law he does meditate day
and night he is like a tree planted by
the streams of water which yields its
fruit and due season and whose leaves
will not wither whatever he does
prospers the Lord watches over the way
of the righteous you see God's covenant
with Israel made it clear
that he would bless their obedience and
he would judge their disobedience romans
eight and five offers a caution says if
we think right then we'll act right in
essence and if we think wrong then we'll
go in the wrong direction but it's
talking about
a mindset it says those who live
according to the sinful nature have
their mind set on the sinful desires and
that's what they will do but those who
live according to the spirit had the
mind set on what the spirit desires the
point is this
everything depends on our mindset we can
have a mind set to become a doer of
God's work and we can experience the
benefit listen to proverbs 24 verse 14
know that wisdom is sweet for your souls
and if you find it there is a future for
you and your hope will never be cut off
become a doer of the word of God
Jeremiah 15 and 16 says it like this
your words were found and I ate them
your words became a delight to me and my
heart's delight for I bear your name o
Lord God of hosts become a dew of God's
work and Ezekiel 3 verse 3 says the Son
of man he said to me eat and fill your
stomach
with this scroll that I'm giving you and
so I ate and it was as sweet as honey in
my mouth man shall not live by bread
alone but by every word that proceeds
out of the mouth of God when we hear the
word and then we take the word and apply
it it will yield fruit in our lives
Isaac would you come and close the
sermon and the word of Prayer ray
let's Heavenly Father we think you want
today for your word we thank you Lord
that you help us to be doers of your
word and not only just to hear your word
and be fat on your word but to take that
word and to go out and do what you want
us to do we thank you Lord that you
continue to guide us Lord and help us
strengthen us God in our faith Lord that
we may be able to Lord take that faith
and live by faith we thank you for your
grace and your mercy upon us Lord father
continue to guide us for we know that
the enemy comes but to steal kill and
destroy to try and steal that word that
we have just heard Lord but you came
that we may have life and we may have
life more abundantly according to your
word Lord we stand on your word the very
foundation for you are that chief
Cornerstone and father we thank you for
everything that you're doing was by your
grace and your mercy was in Christ name
with
our second scripture reading this
morning is from 1 John chapter 1 verses
9 and 10 if we confess our sins he who
is faithful and just will forgive us our
sins and cleanse us from all
unrighteousness if we say that we have
not sinned we make him a liar and his
word is not in us this is the Word of
God for the people of God let us pray
dear God I am so grateful for my
salvation the gift of salvation but I'm
still a broken vessel but I know all you
have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ name I pray amen
I want to share with you what is called
the perfect story the story is about a
perfect man who met a perfect woman
after a perfect courtship they had a
perfect wedding their life together was
of course some hollow with me that's
awesome
then one stormy Christmas Eve the
perfect couple was driving along a
winding road when they noticed someone
on the side of the road and in distress
being the perfect couple they stopped to
help there stood Santa Claus with a huge
bundle of toys not wanting to disappoint
any of the children on the eve of
Christmas they put Santa Claus and the
car and loaded the car with all of these
toys soon they were driving and
delivering toys
unfortunately the driving conditions
deteriorated and the perfect couple and
Santa Claus had an accident there were
only two survivors you know who they are
the perfect woman and Santa Claus
everyone know that Santa Claus would be
alright and everyone knows that there's
no such thing as a perfect man amen I'm
talking about the trouble with
perfection one preacher was preaching
and he says there are no such thing as a
perfect woman anyone present here today
no a perfect woman please stand the room
was silent and no one stood up preacher
kinda got excited because it was working
well with what he was getting ready to
do
and the preacher says anyone who knows
of a perfect man please stand up and one
little older gentleman in the back of
the room stood up and raised one finger
and the preacher was a little surprised
he said are you telling me that you know
of a perfect man and the old man said no
not personally
he said well who is it who is this
perfect man he says my wife's first
husband I'm talking about the trouble
with perfection this morning the odds
against rolling a perfect 300 game of
bowling is about two hundred and
twenty-five thousand to one and one
bowler he was so enthused about scoring
three hundred he collapsed when he
qualified for the Brotherhood of three
hundred another bola just couldn't bring
himself to play that final ball he
simply packed up his bowling ball took
off his shoes put on his regular shoes
left the bowling alley never to return
perhaps afraid of perfectionism how many
of you know Charlton Heston so I'm not
dating myself I'm good I'm good I feel
good about that
he played Moses in the Ten Commandments
but he died in 2008 he was 84 years old
he won many awards but he was not a man
who sat on his laurels he was something
of a perfectionist he said one of the
things about acting or painting or
writing or composing music is that you
never get it right you could spend a
lifetime and if you're honest with
yourself you never once get it right he
continued by saying one time a reporter
said to him he says you know what you
have everything you have all the awards
you get all the best parts for movies
and you have all the money that a
company's such a successful career what
are your goals now and mr. Heston said
to get it right once he was a
perfectionist I want to challenge your
thinking this morning with the thought
the trouble with perfection
you see the trouble with perfection is
that no one can live up to the standard
of perfection they were never meant to
that's the trouble with perfection last
week
Hugh Harris and I sort of tag-team and
Isaac sort of moderated our conversation
and he sort of closed our divine
dialogue on forgiveness with this
statement that he he found and Isaac I
want you to kind of share that with us
because that's gonna be our launching
pad this morning okay
our statement is from the association of
biblical counselors and as we look at
this statement I want you to listen and
extrapolate it and it's practical
application listen with your spiritual
ear to what it is saying
it says when our Christian counsel II
says something like I just can't forgive
myself as biblical counselors how do we
respond perhaps it's a client who has
committed adultery or had an abortion or
done something contrary to Scripture and
despite asking for and receiving God's
forgiveness the counsel II refuses to
forgive himself or herself see we listen
to the internal dialogue the counsel II
beats themselves up saying things like I
should have known better oh why did I do
such a stupid thing or I can't believe I
did that or what's wrong with me anybody
said that before
and for some counsel leaves this
internal dialogue is running day and
night it's tormenting them with each and
every mistake every sin and every
failure but as biblical counselors we
earnestly try to insert the gospel into
this person's thinking challenging them
with the truth we may say something like
if the God of the universe was willing
to come to earth become human and
sacrifice himself to forgive our sins
who are we not to forgive
either others or our own self did you
hear what that say let me repeat it for
you again if the God of the universe was
coming to us when he came to earth to
earth to forgive us of our sins and
sacrifice himself who are we not to
forgive who are we either others or our
own self yet that theological truth can
be difficult if not impossible for some
of our counsel leaves to put into
practice when they are in the middle of
ruminating over their stupid mistakes
missed opportunities or sin you see
God's grace although mentally
acknowledged is not their internal
reality it's the theological truth but
not transformational truth when someone
isn't able to move beyond their failures
mistakes and even sins they can get
stuck in a spiral of debilitating regret
even depression and even self-hatred
amen
you see it's important as biblical
counselors that we understand the way
out of this internal bondage because it
is internal bondage Church you see it's
not self forgiveness but rather self
acceptance although they may be
hard-pressed to acknowledge it you see
in essence they want to be like God
perfect and in control of all things
hello let me repeat that for you
although they may be hard-pressed to
acknowledge it but in essence they want
to be like God perfect and in control of
all things are we perfect I'm not not by
a long shot now Reverend parson that is
the problem with perfection you ask the
question yes right now they believe that
they should know how to do it right they
want to believe that they should know
how to say it right to know ahead of
time what the right answer should be or
what the right solution would be to
solve the problem if they could always
live that way that they would feel
better about themselves but when they
fail and as a sinner we will fail they
feel a profound disappointment and shame
they can't believe how stupid sinful
fooling is foolish or incompetent scared
and irresponsible and selfish they are
in beating themselves up they reinforce
the internal life that they should have
been better than that you see before
someone can accept God's grace they must
emotionally not merely intellectually
accept who they are there is only one
God and they are not him you see we are
creatures one who is called both saint
and sinner beautiful and broken a man
humility is the only path that would
give us the internal freedom we crave
because we are humble you see Jesus
called it poor in spirit a man you see
then will be in a position to
emotionally accept who we are we are
fallible we're imperfect we're sinful
creatures who don't know it all hello
then we will no longer be so shocked we
won't be ashamed or disappointed when we
see the darker sinful weaker side of
ourselves because you will see it they
men you see it's not our sins and
failures that caused our greatest
emotional pain rather it's our
unrealistic expectations of ourselves
and our lack of acceptance when we mess
up anybody messed up before
amen but embracing the truth we are also
set free to embrace and experience the
beauty of God's grace now I want to
actually a question this morning church
do you want God's grace this morning
then accept the fact that you nor anyone
else is perfect amen
can you just say wow wow it's a lot to
think about but when we think of Noah
who built the Ark and we think how great
he was
oh wait a minute he was a drunk or when
we think about Moses who parted the Red
Sea wait a minute
Isaac he had a short temper and he was a
murderer or when we think about King
David who was a king he had an affair
well what about Elijah he was burnt out
and he was suicidal Jeremiah was
depressed Jonah ran from God John the
Baptist was a little weird
I mean bugs and honey come on now
that was his meal and Peter the rock did
not Jesus not once not twice but three
times
Thomas doubt it Zacchaeus was a little
man Paul was too religious and
overzealous there is no person in the
entire Bible who was perfect except one
who was that anybody
somebody went to Sunday School class
praise the Lord praise the Lord there is
only one and his name is Jesus we're not
perfect you see the trouble with
perfection is that we've created a
standard that nobody can reach no one
can reach it
these last past few Sundays we've talked
about how difficult it is to forgive we
talked about you know forgiving and
forgetting we talked about being
reconciled can we forgive somebody and
not be reconciled what is reconciliation
we talked about some hard things but
this is what I want you to hear God's
ways are not our ways amen God's ways
are not our ways scripture says if we
say that we have no sin then we deceive
ourselves and the truth it's not in us
if we say we have no sin we deceive
ourselves and the truth is not in us and
that places us in jeopardy because it
means that we won't ask for forgiveness
and maybe not receive it I love the
classic example of Jesus parable of the
Pharisee and the tax collector remember
Jesus is the one talking the Pharisee of
course was was was known for their
observance of the law and the tax
collector maybe not the most spiritual
among them but remember Jesus is telling
the story and he says and the Pharisee
prayed
and this is what he says listen god I
thank you that I'm not like the rest of
men extortionists unrighteous adulterers
or even like this tax collector remember
Jesus is telling the story the Pharisee
goes on in his prayer to say I fast
twice a week I give tithes of all that I
get Jesus says Wow listen to the
Pharisees but the tax collector feeling
the weight of his guilt stood afar with
the downcast eyes breathing hard just
put his hands on his chest unable to
muster this beautiful poetic prayer but
he simply said dear God
be merciful unto me a sinner remember
Jesus is telling the story and Jesus
says but the tax collector went home
justified I don't know about you Isaac
but one time I wanted to pray like the
Psalms I wanted to pray poetically but
when I read this story I just wanted to
say Lord forgive me a sinner those of us
who will humble ourselves God will exalt
us but those who will not humble
themselves God won't deal with us
the danger of those who claim not to
have any sin in their lives they
deceived themselves and they closed the
door to forgiveness I love first John
faithful and just to forgive us of our
sins and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness predicated on if if we
confess it I'm so glad that God doesn't
see big sins and little sins but what's
ever going on in our lives this is not
easy stuff this is difficult so listen
to this passage Luke 6 verses 27 to 28
but to you who are listening I say love
your enemies do good to those who hate
you bless those who curse you and pray
for those who mistreat you what Lord
what do you ask let me read it again but
to you who are listening I say to you
love your enemies
what do good to those who hate you are
you serious
bless those who curse you pray for those
who mistreat you God's ways are not our
ways amen
this is hard stuff
revering Craig Groeschel
says it like this sometimes when someone
has hurt us we don't feel like praying
for them anybody you want to stay away
from them
I know that when I first became a
believer this was impossible I'm not
praying for them you know what they did
to me
and I had a long list of what they did
but God's ways are not our ways but to
you who are listening love your enemies
do good to those who hate you bless
those who curse you and pray and pray
for those who mistreat you Craig
Groeschel says it this way you may not
feel like praying but do it anyway he
says right actions will trigger right
feelings but if you keep on doing it
God's Way then maybe you'll have even a
greater desire to pray for others and
then he says this that's really
important when I pray for others I
didn't see so much that they changed but
I saw the change in me when I prayed for
others it may not make sense to us it's
difficult to do but this is what God
requires of us to forgive others so that
we might be forgiven to pray for those
in other words who are lost
pray for those who are misguided pray
for those who've heard us pray for those
who may not have a relationship with our
God pray that they might come to know
him in the pardon of their sins just
like we had to come to know him amen
pray maybe we can start there maybe
you're not there because it's a process
but start the process with prayer start
there maybe you start by saying Lord I
don't feel like praying but I know you
told me to pray just tell me what to say
Reverend Rochelle says that there was a
family member who abused his sister and
when he heard this scripture he knew
that it pricked his heart if he needed
to pray for that individual he said all
I could say was bless them I don't want
to talk about them he said I said it
kind of half-hearted I didn't really
have any feeling for it I don't even
know if I meant it but I was just trying
to follow through with what God had told
me to do but the more I began to pray
over time I began to pray for him he
said you know I mustered up the courage
to write this person a letter and to
tell them that I had forgiven them for
what they had done he says then I went
on to tell them why I wanted to forgive
them and that forgiveness was available
to them
he says but the he died but the
caretaker of the person sent me back a
note and said before he died he couldn't
read so I wrote your letter I read your
letter to him she said and he wept and
he wept and he asked God for forgiveness
so Reverend Rochelle I just wanted you
to know that what you did made a huge
difference in his life and then she said
and I'm a Christian in that day I led
him to the Lord my friends we have no
idea of what our prayers can do for
someone else I'm gonna say it one more
time but to those of you who are
listening love your enemies do good to
those who hate you bless those who curse
you pray for those who mistreat you pray
that's where I want you to begin start
your process today by praying Isaac
would you come and close us in the word
of Prayer
most gracious and how many guy we think
you want today Lord for we know that you
are the creator of all things and we are
the creation Lord help us God to forgive
others who have wrongfully mistreated us
help us Lord to forgive ourselves in
situations where we have messed up
because we have messed up Lord but take
our mess Lord and work it and turn it in
for our good help us Lord to learn the
lesson that you want us to learn out of
our own mess but Lord we thank you that
you continue to lift us up and
strengthen us God turn our hearts Lord
that we may be able to love our enemies
father that we may be able to love our
neighbors and that we may be able to
love ourselves Lord we thank you O
Heavenly Father that you continue Lord
keep your hand upon each and every
person each and every family here on
today god we thank you for your grace
and your mercy for God we know that you
loved us beyond anything that we could
possibly begin to love ourselves and we
know that your grace will sustain us for
Lord we thank you
what's in Christ's name we pray and all
of God's people said amen
Sarah where are you
she's got a surprise for us Laura and
we've got some of the men in the church
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
in your bulletin you will find an insert
which is a recap from our previous
message that we had on forgiveness which
is what our dialogue would be on this
morning but our scripture reading this
so then putting away falsehood falsehood
let us let all of us speak the truth to
our neighbors for we are members of one
another be angry but do not sin do not
let the Sun go down on your anger and do
not make room for the devil thieves must
give up stealing rather let them labor
and work honestly with their own hands
so as to have something to share with
the needy let no evil talk come out of
your mouths but only what is useful for
building up as there is need so that
your words may give grace to those who
hear and do not grieve the Holy Spirit
of God with which you were marked with a
seal for the day of redemption put away
from you all bitterness and wrath and
anger and wrangling and slander together
with all malice and be kind to one
another tender-hearted forgiving one
another as God in Christ has forgiven
you therefore be imitators of God as
beloved children and live in love as
loved us and gave himself up for us a
fragrant offering and sacrificed to God
another and if anyone has a complaint
against another forgive each other just
as the Lord has forgiven you so you also
must forgive
above all clothe yourselves with love
which binds together everything together
in perfect harmony and let the Peace of
Christ rule in your hearts to which
indeed you were called in the one body
and be thankful let the word of Christ
dwell in you richly teach and admonish
one another in all wisdom and with
gratitude in your hearts
seeing Psalms hymns and spiritual songs
to God this is the word of God for the
people of God today we're going to have
a dialogue on forgiveness and we will
start with Reverend parson giving us a
background of the scripture Reverend
parson
the Apostle Paul was writing to the
church in Ephesus located in Asian Minor
which is today modern Turkey but the
membership of the church was primarily
Gentile and Paul sets the tone for these
chapters when he says walk worthily of
your calling with which you were called
in verses 1 through 16 he talked about
the unity of Christ's body the church
one body one spirit one hope of your
calling one Lord one faith one baptism
one God and Father over all
for all while believers have various
gifts he's basically saying we're there
to build up the body which is Christ
Church Paul contrasts the way that the
gentiles live with the way that
believers are to live in this context
Paul used the word Gentile to equate
with non-believers believers have
learned to put away their old corrupt
ways and to put on a new identity found
in Christ can you please give us a
to the immediate context calls for the
transformation of those who are in
Christ we are taught to put away the
former life and to be renewed in our
mind and in our spirits the new life
experienced in Christ is meant to have
far-reaching effects and that's
precisely those effects that are
elaborated in this peruca P of text in
the larger context of the Epistle the
gift of God in Christ has been brought
about with reconciliation of the Jews
and the Gentiles thus creating one
community listen to the power of the
instruction verse 26 be angry but do not
sin anger is understood as a normal part
of the human expression but it can give
the occasion for temptation listen it
says make no room for the Adept for the
devil the Apostle Paul is offering
another way to deal with anger which
he's alluding to the fact that we need
to limit anger in our lives here's the
caution living with anger for any
extended period of time
will eventually lead us down the wrong
path
and here's the problem the church has
often had difficulty preaching and
teaching on anger too often the messages
that we should swallow up anger we
should ignore it but here's the irony
when we try to act like quote-unquote
good Christians who don't experience
anger anger that does not exist it goes
underground and there it festers and it
creates different problems and then
lastly the Apostle Paul says the
ultimate call is to imitate Christ so
anger gets inside of us we all get angry
but we cannot let it fester inside of us
because it becomes a cancer that eats us
internally Amen Reverend Harris I want
to come to you now can you please give
us a background in summary of Colossians
Colossians in the background the
atmosphere of colossi when Paul is
speaking here is one of conflict
it's the conflict between the law the
Jewish law and the the new covenant that
he is bringing in Christ Paul would go
into a place in the world of that time
and begin with the synagogue because
that's where he had his entree and that
set up a lot of tensions there between
the Jewish faith and the Gentiles so
people were steeped in the law and the
prophets they they took very seriously
the doctrines like circumcision festival
celebrations the clean versus the
unclean food the practice of the Sabbath
and what Paul was introducing was a
whole new concept in Christ new
believers are to be spiritually
circumcised there to be made acceptable
to God through a spirit
process and this is something new in
baptism he taught that they became new
persons from the inside out when you're
a new person you intentionally step away
from the old practices the old beliefs
in order to embrace and be the
effectiveness of the new beliefs and the
new being the new life involves being
wrapped in God's grace wrapped up
covered wrapped in it instead of being
wrapped in the anger and wrath and
slander abusive language the things that
he mentions you are now wrapped in love
expressed as compassion expressed as
kindness as humility meekness as
patience and as believers God in His
love binds us to one another
cutting through defy cygnus that would
pull us apart
so when divisive issues arose Paul
counseled the Colossians to accept God's
forgiveness and the newness that he is
leading them into therefore therefore
becoming able to forgive one another
forgiveness was possible he taught them
and therefore movement forward by the
grace of God no church our actions our
actions are fruit of our attitude and
our attitude will reflect the condition
of our relationship with Christ because
we're all disciples of Jesus Christ and
so is our attitude we must reflect him
amen so as we keep our eyes fixed on
Jesus we will walk with the spirit of
forgiveness and will reflect a
christ-like attitude toward others
listen church now you have no control
over other people's actions towards you
do you what you do have control over is
your actions towards others you can't
control that
amen I want to welcome all of you and I
want to challenge your thinking with
this thought
divine dialog on forgiveness we hear a
lot about the need to forgive those who
have offended us but it's not an easy
thing to do is it when we have been
deeply hurt by someone our nature is to
hold a grudge or to try and get evening
hello anybody can relate to that this
morning
should be more hands than that I got to
put up to him
that was the old person they men now I
want to ask your question Reverend
Harris what would you say to someone who
finds it hard to forgive and secondly
will you share from your life's ministry
an example of a person who found it
difficult to forgive well the first
thing I would say is that finding it
hard to forgive condition normal that is
normal in our lives it's because we live
our lives we see our lives from a me
perspective you see from the perspective
of yourself
in structuring a story a writer will pay
attention to the different voices of the
characters that he portrays in what he's
trying to write because each voice is a
different perspective it is when you mix
all the perspectives together that you
get the energy that carries and moves
the tension forward in a story and makes
you want to read now life is like that
we have our different perspectives and
we're all mixed together and it enables
us to move forward in our life but we
have to grow in the process
one reason forgiveness is so hard is
because of that functioning out of our
own perspective situations occur when
our perspectives clash with the
perspectives the way people see and feel
about life of others we feel offended
frequently because of some needs it's
not may it met or something it is said
or something that is done that offends
our
perspective our own space and when we
feel offended we need to be brought back
together again we need reconciliation
but we can't get what we need because
it's beyond our perspective unless we do
it through the enabling of God's grace
if we have offended someone our purpose
then is to reach toward that person in
the feeling level of that and if someone
has offended us our need is to make it
possible for them to reach back and us
to establish new contact getting to that
level that feeling level not just the
level of what happened on the surface
but underneath that feeling level over
arches the offense and brings healing if
an offense occurs then the offense will
fester and build up if you don't do this
it will cause more suffering until you
find a way to deal with it so an example
of this would be a situation that I
recall where one day I did it one time I
did a wedding out of town for a church
family that unintentionally caused me to
offend another family and caused strife
the wedding happened at the same time
that a church member who was critically
ill and had been for some time was
taking a turn for the worse and I didn't
understand fully all that was happening
everywhere but I had the commitment to
the wedding in the rehearsal and I went
to the rehearsal that Saturday and I
came back late at night I thought about
looking in on the woman I realized it
was too late and I was tired and I went
home and the next day I intended after
the wedding to visit and pick up with
that need but she died that day and when
I got back
her husband was furious at me I've
seldom known such fury directed toward
me if you had been here this wouldn't
have happened this way would have made a
difference so he got another pastor and
had him do the funeral and he spread the
word that I wasn't doing my job and I
would see a match earch and he would
attack me verbally and sometimes I
feared it might be physically and I
would simply try to stand my ground in
love and simply to say I'm sorry I did
not mean for that to happen that way
that went on for months and finally each
of us needing God's intercession and
healing finally that's what happened
finally something happened in his spirit
that the healing grace of God began to
change in him and then he and I could
begin at a different feeling level to
relate to each other and by God's grace
that conflict subsided
yes now my second question is for you
rebel parson what would you say to
someone who finds it difficult to
forgive others and from your life's
ministry can you give us an example of
someone who found it difficult to
forgive himself or herself yes when I
was at Saint Peter's College there were
only two theologian I mean two students
entering into theology and I was in the
cafeteria and this lady came up to talk
to me and she sat down and she said I
want to share a story with you and I
said sure
and she says a few years back I was
really active in the church and she told
me of all these things that she had done
to help this church she fell in love and
she got pregnant she said the church
stripped her of all of her positions and
for about three years or four years she
didn't go to church she had a son he was
about three and a half and she says he
was in the yard playing with
a couple of other kids the ball went
over the fence and he went after it and
he was killed he was hit by a car and
dragged three blocks she said I was so
angry at God all the stuff that I had
done for the church and what would God
not intercede on my behalf then she said
I had this idea I'm gonna get God back
I'm gonna live contrary to everything
that I know the Bible says I'm gonna
live against my own value system but I'm
gonna show God and she said Reverend
parson that's what I did
she said I did some things that I'm not
proud of and she went on to tell me
about those things and then when she
finished she said what do you think God
would say to me right now I said God
would say come home come home I said you
gotta let go of your anger you got to
forgive God and you got to forgive
yourself my friend shiri dedicated her
life to God in that cafeteria but here's
what I want you to hear sometimes things
are difficult for us and if we're honest
we do get angry with God I can recall
one time telling my mother that I was
angry with God about my dad not being in
my life and my mother slapped me across
the face
and she says don't you ever say that you
are angry with God here's what I want
you to hear God can handle our anger
amen
and it was God who helped me in the
midst of that to work through it yes we
find ourselves in difficult times but
we've got to find a way and ask God for
the help
- sometimes forgive him sometimes
forgive ourselves and to forgive others
who have hurt us Thank You Reverend
parson now I want to ask you a question
do you think there's anything too hard
for God he can handle your anger Bible
says be angry get angry but don't sin
see sometimes God has already forgiven
us but we haven't forgiven ourselves
amen
we wrestled with forgiveness of
forgiving ourselves because of something
that we did and God has already forgiven
you
it's like Laura was saying this morning
you holding on to that weight you
carrying that around and it's weighing
you down let it go let it go
amen my third question goes to you
Reverend Harris how would you defend
define reconciliation and what would you
say to someone who would ask is it
possible to forgive and not be
reconciled and from your life's ministry
can you give us an example of
reconciliation reconciliation is a blend
a binding together it's a healing it's a
bringing back together that which has
been split up or separated where there's
been anger where there's been discord
where there's been things that have torn
people apart reconciliation is where you
get past that and begin to mend the
relationship which is what God does with
us in Christ when we're saved so if it's
a coming together that means it's not an
overnight process it doesn't normally
happen that oh I forgive you therefore
yeah we're all back where we were begin
with you know that's the beginning point
we have to build ourselves back together
again partly is trust of each other and
ourselves and God but reconciliation is
a process is a mutual give-and-take ring
that is rooted in this renewal of love
and respect for one another
conciliation the word conciliation is
the root of the word reconciliation and
conciliation is just what you were
talking about
it's overcoming anger anger is such a
deep part of what sometimes moves in our
spirits and separates us both from
ourselves and our best side from each
other and from God and so where's the
reconciliation if you want to overcome
anger if you want that conciliation it
has to be the goal that you seek it has
to be what you want what you have to do
is seek to be reconciled
it won't happen if you don't that's why
Paul said don't let the Sun go down on
your anger because when you let the Sun
go down on it it festers and that's
where it begins that whole process you
may not resolve an issue very quickly
but if you don't start seeking the
reconciliation right away it prolongs
the process without reconciliation
without forgiveness reconciliation isn't
even possible forgiveness is the engine
that drives that at the same time you
can forgive somebody in your spirit in
your heart in your soul and you can
express that and you can seek
reconciliation you can want to get
things back together but it can't happen
until that's a mutual desire that each
person involved is seeking
reconciliation an example of that from
my ministry that was at one church that
I served where the treasurer and I had
conflict it just seemed that I always he
always seemed oppositional in the things
that I was trying to bring up or to work
with or the things we were working at as
a congregation he became a source of
disagreements about almost everything it
went on for several years
somehow we learned to muddle through
around that but it really held the
church all of us back in our spiritual
life I finished my ministry there went
on to another place and the next year I
went to annual conference and I heard a
voice behind me and it was this man
coming up and he said Reverend Harris
and he and his wife said we want you to
go to supper
with us well this is a switch and I over
whelmed I said well sure so we did we
went to a restaurant we sat together and
he said I want to tell you what's
happened in my life I went to Annamayya
swauk I walked with Jesus in a new way
and he changed me from inside out he
showed me some things about myself that
have been him you know what he showed me
he showed me that I've been hard on you
and you didn't deserve it I have been
throwing up roadblocks to things that he
was leading you to try to do and I want
I want your forgiveness with that I'm
sorry about that he asked for
forgiveness
and of course I had already forgiven him
or we couldn't have kept going his heart
had been changed by Christ and that
changed his relationships I had long ago
forgiven him but reconciliation hadn't
happened until now you see reconcile
reconciliation isn't forgetting
something it isn't making it like it
never happened
it isn't taking it and putting it on the
closets y'all shutting the door and
throwing away the key that's not what
reconciliation is you don't forget that
God changes how you remember and you can
remember positively things that were
negative and I can remember with
gratitude what happened with this man
and our reconciliation and I can
remember all the other kinds of times
but I remember them now from the side of
grace that is reconciliation and it can
happen that forgiveness occurs before
their reconciliation is worked through
but it comes through forgiveness you
know there was a disciple with Jesus
named Peter anybody ever heard of Peter
Peter denied Christ three times didn't
he not once not twice three times and
Jesus had to come back and
reconcile him to herself Peter do you
love me Lord you know I love you feed my
sheep three times he asked him that so
sometimes we have to take a look at
ourselves we may get angry with God we
may not like some things but he still
loved you because that's who he is he
still loves you regardless amen
now my fourth and final question is
directed to Reverend parson Reverend
parson how do you respond to someone who
asks am I wrong in saying I can see to
forgive but I will never forget can you
give us an example of someone forgiving
but never forgetting yes I think it's
difficult to forget the mind is like a
computer it will remember but it's not
about forgetting it's really about
working through the pain the frustration
the difficulty when I was in the Marine
Corps I had a staff sergeant taking an
advantage of two of my junior Marines in
a sexual way and I was angry I wanted to
fight I wanted to hurt this guy because
somebody should have been there to
protect these junior Marines so I went
to see the chaplain and I told the
chaplain that I was upset and I had
these ill feelings for this
Staff Sergeant so we talked about it and
he prayed with me and I thought I had
forgiven the guy I really did but when I
saw him something moved inside of me it
welled up so quickly
I went back to the chaplains office and
I said I lied to myself anybody have a
lot of yourself I said I thought I
forgave this guy but when I saw him that
thing welled up inside of me and he says
parson you need to be spiritually healed
of it I didn't fully understand what he
meant but he anointed me with oil he
laid his hands on me and he prayed a
prayer of healing when he finished I'm
not going to tell you that I felt any
different but I went to the barracks and
I just wanted to thank God that I had a
safe place to go to talk about this so I
got on my knees and I just thank God for
sending the chaplain when I finished
praying I walked outside and guess who
walked past that staff sergeant but let
me tell you what happened I didn't feel
anything I didn't feel anger I didn't
feel frustration I didn't feel
bitterness I didn't feel a sense of
revenge I felt nothing now my mind could
recall it but I didn't feel anything so
it's not about forgetting it's about
working through the pain through the
anger and through the frustration Thank
You Reverend parson now wanted to give
you a closing remark this morning I want
to thank Reverend parson and Reverend
Harris for their remarks and this is
taken from the association of biblical
counselors so we're gonna look at it
from a counseling perspective this
morning and as we close I want you to
listen and extrapolate its practical
application listen with a spiritual ear
in what God is saying amen he says when
our Christian hymn counsel II says
something like I just can't forgive
myself you ever said that before as
biblical counselors how
we respond perhaps it's a client who has
committed adultery or had an abortion or
done something contrary to the scripture
and despite asking for and receiving
God's forgiveness the counsel he refuses
to forgive himself or herself we
listened to the internal dialogue the
counsel he beats themselves up saying
things like I should have known better
or why did I do such a stupid thing or I
can't believe I did that
oh what's wrong with me and for certain
counsel ease this internal dialogue is
running day and night tormenting them
with every each and every mistake every
sin and every failure sometimes you
won't be able to sleep at night because
you're being tortured internally as
biblical counselors we earnestly try to
insert the gospel into this person's
thinking challenging them with the truth
we may say something like if the God of
the universe was willing to come to
earth become human and sacrifice himself
to forgive our sins who are we not to
forgive either others or our own selves
yet that theological truth can be
difficult if not impossible for some of
our counsel leaves to put into practice
when they are in the middle of
ruminating over their stupid mistakes
missed opportunities or sin God's grace
although mentally acknowledged is not
their internal reality it's the
theological truth but not
transformational truth when someone
isn't able to move beyond their failures
mistakes and sins they can get stuck in
a spiral of debilitating regret
depression and even self-hatred it
simple
as biblical counselors that we
understand the way out of this internal
bondage it's not self forgiveness but
rather self acceptance so you have to
accept who God has created you to be
human you see although they may be hard
pressed to acknowledge it in essence to
be like God perfect and in control of
all things how many you know that we are
not perfect church amen
you see they believe they should know
how to do it right to say it right to
know ahead of time what the right answer
should be or what the right solution
would be to best solve the problem if
they could always live that way then
they would feel better about themselves
but when they fail and as a sinner they
inevitably will fail you see they feel a
profound disappointment and shame they
can't believe how stupid sinful foolish
incompetent scared irresponsible selfish
they really are in beating themselves up
they reinforce the internal lie that
they should have been better than that
before someone can accept God's grace
they must emotionally not merely
intellectually accept who they are there
is only one God and they are not him we
are creatures we were created he is the
creator one who is called both Saint and
sinners we're beautiful but we just
called it poor in spirit we'll be in a
position to emotionally accept who we
are see we're fallible imperfect we're
sinful creatures who don't know it all
then we will no longer be so shocked
ashamed or disappointed when we see the
darker sinful weaker side of ourselves
amen
it's not our sins and failures that
cause our greatest emotional pain rather
it is our unrealistic expectations of
ourselves and our lack of acceptance
when we mess up see sometimes we got to
accept that we are gonna fail we are not
perfect but when you fall you get back
up and you start again that's the
difference amen
you see embracing the truth
we are also set free to embrace and
experience the beauty of God's grace
it's that grace that allows us to get
ourselves back up brush ourselves off
and continue to move amen you see
today's sermon has been a divine
dialogue on forgiveness
Lord we stand in need of your grace at
every level of our being and our own
failures and our efforts to be your
people sometimes seem to beat with
frustration and there are those with
whom we are from whom we are estranged
with whom we need to be reconciled some
reconciliation takes us new directions
some of us shows us a part of ourselves
we never saw some of it is where we walk
fresh with Christ and all of it we
become free from the inside out to
accept your forgiving love that reaches
to us and that has always been reaching
to us from the moment of our creation
and we accept and connect with you in a
fresh way and you make possible a new
relationship a new celebration of your
joy and love lead us in this pathway of
forgiveness and reconciliation and show
us the richness of what you have through
Christ for each of us this prayer we
lift as we come to this time in our
service and Lord now we want you to hear
us as we pray as your son taught us of
old our Father who art to heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever amen maybe that's just comfort
that we might worship the Lord that the
giving of our tithes and
how scripture reading comes from first
Corinthians chapter 13 verses 1 through
13 if I speak in the tongues of mortals
and of angels but do not have love I am
a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal and if
I have prophetic powers and understand
all mysteries and all knowledge and if I
have all faith so as to move mountains
but do not have love I am nothing if I
give away all of my possessions and when
I hand over my body so that I may boast
but do not have love I gain nothing love
is patient love is kind love is not
envious or boastful or arrogant or rude
it does not insist on its own way it is
not irritable or resentful it does not
rejoice and wrongdoing but rejoices in
the truth it bears all things believes
all things hope all things endure all
things love never ends but as for
prophecies they will come to an end
as for tongues they will cease as for
knowledge it will come to an end for we
know only in part and we prophesy only
in part but when the complete comes the
partial will come to an end when I was a
child I spoke like a child I thought
like a child
I reasoned like a child when I became an
adult I put an end to childish ways for
now we see in a mirror dimly but then we
will see face to face now I know only in
part then I will know fully even as I've
been fully known and now faith hope and
love abide these three and the greatest
of these is love
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
made sink deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace and I'm
grateful for salvation but I am still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will
hide this preacher behind the cross that
your people might see you and not me
that they might hear you and not me let
the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
today is the beginning of a sermon
series on forgiveness next week Hugh
Harris and I will be in the pulpit
together tag-teaming the sermon on
forgiveness you don't want to miss it
you really want to come and see what God
is going to do forgiveness is a topic
that I've had to learn over and over
again
doesn't come natural to forgive yet it
is a spiritual discipline we all know
this subject well because there's been
times in our lives when we have offended
others and others have offended us there
are things that we have done in our
lives that we wish we have never done
anybody know what I'm talking about but
I'm talking about that great subject
entitled forgiveness even as I've said
this I imagine that you are thinking
about people that you need to forgive
you might even be thinking about people
who need to forgive you so we have this
in common but in both cases forgiving or
need to be forgiven the radical solution
is forgiveness
I know some of you are saying I know
that when we start talking about
forgiveness you want me to just lay down
and anything anybody wants to offer I'm
just supposed to take it but what
happens Rev when when they don't
apologize for what they've done
then emphatically I want to say to you
forgive them anyway because forgiveness
has a lot to do with your spiritual walk
and less to do with theirs when I was at
Saint Peter's College which was a Jesuit
school I only mentioned that it was a
Jesuit school so that you would
understand that every student had to
take a religion course or a couple of
religion courses but one person that we
studied I enjoyed learning about his
life and his name was Henry now and he
was born January 24th 1932 he died
September 21st 1996 he was a Dutch
Catholic priests a professor a writer a
theologian and his interests were rooted
primarily in psychology pastoral care
spirituality social justice and the
unity of community but here is his
insight on forgiveness so I want you to
lean in and give me your ear but this is
what Henri Nouwen says when someone
hurts us offends us ignore us or reject
us a deep inner protest emerges it can
be rage
or depression or desire to take revenge
it can be an impulse to harm someone
else or even to harm ourselves we can
feel a deep urge to wound the person
that has wounded us or to withdraw in a
suicidal mood of self rejection although
these extreme reactions might seem
exceptional they're never far far from
our hearts and our minds during the long
nights we often find ourselves brooding
over words and actions we might have
used and response to what others may
have said or done to us but listen
closely
he says it's precisely here that we have
to dig deep dig into our spiritual
resources and find the center within us
the center that lies beyond our need to
hurt others it is here that we are truly
free to love and to forgive and then he
says forgiveness is the true way to
freedom to forgive another person from
the heart is an act of liberation we set
that other person free from the negative
bonds that exists between us we say I no
longer hold your offense against you but
there's more
we also free ourselves from the burden
of being the offended one and as long as
we do not forgive those
who have wounded us we carry them with
us or worse we pulled them around as a
heavy load imagine something happens to
us and we don't deal with it and after a
while that offense becomes like a
backpack that you just carry around with
you
maybe it weighs 5 pounds when it first
started but over time it begins to weigh
more begins to pull on your life
sometimes we hold on to stuff for 20 and
30 years and it's like walking around
with luggage
everywhere you go you're dragging this
thing around with you
and now and says forgiveness is the true
way to freedom for the children of God I
know you saw a coffee in the sermon
title coffee and forgiveness is
essential coffee is an acronym and it
means Christ offers forgiveness for
everyone everywhere somebody ought to
say thanks be to God forgiveness is at
the core of Christianity in fact
forgiveness is so central to the
Christian faith that we might argue that
you can't separate the two take away
forgiveness and Christianity would not
exist
you can't separate them forgiveness is a
decision of the will and since God
commands us to forgive we must make a
conscious choice to obey God by
forgiving this is hard stuff I'm asking
this morning forgiveness is not simple
it's difficult dr. cha swindle says it
like this he says forgiveness is not an
elective on God's curriculum it's a core
requirement forgiveness is a deliberate
act of love forgiveness is a deliberate
act of mercy forgiveness is a deliberate
act of grace forgiveness is a decision
to not to hold something against another
person despite what they've said or what
they have done when I married couples I
share the love passage that was read in
your hearing and I shared with them and
but when I offer a homily on their
wedding day this is what I share with
every couple where forgiveness like a
garment forgiveness is giving up your
right to hurt the other person back
forgiveness is what builds the bridge to
the heart for
this frees both of you to give and to
receive love to give and to receive love
forgiveness is the highest form of God's
grace it can be brutal it can be like
poetry in motion
forgiveness is the most elegant gift
that you will lay at the feet of your
love my friends you've heard me read
this scripture in your hearing 1st
Corinthians chapter 13 but in essence
it's saying this that a clear head and a
deep understanding are of no value
without a heart generated by love doing
good to others is good but if it's not
done out of love for God and goodwill
towards humanity it doesn't mean
anything if we give away all we have
while withholding our heart from God and
won't profit us anything love forgives
everything love is always trusting love
is always hoping love never gives up it
never gives up
first Corinthian captor 13 verses 4
through 7 forgetting those things where
people have wronged us
don't create a list tells us
to forget those things I don't know
about you but when I first got married
it was a real lesson I mean I had to
grow out of my own selfishness anybody
know what I'm talking about
and to be honest with you I stayed in
trouble anybody else and I could
remember that my wife messed up now you
just heard me say that I was the one who
was always in trouble but she messed up
y'all see the smile on my face and I had
a right here I had a right there I had
the power to forgive or not to forgive
but I remember being in my room and
taking the time to pray and God didn't
like my attitude and God dealt with me
about having an attitude of forgiveness
now today the message is not about
reconciliation we're going to get to
that in the sermon series because you
can forgive someone without being
reconciled to them but I'm sharing the
need to forgive the need to let it go
says love doesn't seek its own too often
we're so worried about ourselves but you
see that's a worldly construct that's
not a biblical mandate to think about
just ourselves you know where we get in
trouble where I get in trouble it's when
my ego gets in the way anybody when my
pride gets in the way that's where I get
in trouble because then I want to fight
back but God is telling us
to let it go I love this passage because
it says that love is not easily provoked
you ever has some people that you got to
walk on eggshells because anything you
do they seem to to get upset scripture
here says that love is not easily
provoked
in other words maintain your peace don't
get upset over the little things hang in
there
Jesus is my example you know they tried
to provoke him all the time and look how
he handled it with the love love keeps
no record of wrongs I'm telling you I
was that person I grew up without my dad
being in the home from when I was five
years old and I had a list but last time
he told me he was coming to see me play
my ball game and he didn't show up he
was on the list anybody have a list he
promised me he was gonna buy me this and
he didn't do it and he was on the list
and my birthday's he didn't show up he
was on the list didn't teach me how to
tie a tie how to tie my shoes how to
ride a bike he was on the list and some
of us are just like that you know what's
interesting is when I cancel people in
the office and they start telling me
about a problem in their family you know
what I asked when did that happen
oh it happened 20 years ago but I'm
still mad about it when are you going to
let it go
sometimes the wounds have been so deep
that we need to ask for spiritual
healing so that we can forgive and that
we can move on with our lives
Jesus is my example when he was on the
cross he didn't say daddy you see all
these people that did this to me get him
get her she was laughing too when it was
beating me she was laughing get her
daddy no that's not what he said he says
Father forgive them for they know not
what they do
Jesus is my example Colossians chapter 3
verses 13 and 14 says forget whatever
grievance you may have against one
another forgive as the Lord forgave you
and over all of these virtues put on
love which binds them all together and
it binds them in perfect unity refusing
to keep a record of wrong
back and take a look at it read it for
yourself and see that we are more like
God when we love he says that you'll
know they'll know that you're my
disciples if you love one another I know
some of you are saying but some people
have an ax to grind
but as a Christian I want you to bury
the hatchet love keeps no record of
wrongs so how do we forgive I'm gonna
give you five different things that I
think that can be helpful
remember what forgiveness involves it
doesn't mean that you're condoning the
wrong or you must pretend as though this
awful thing has never happened it means
that you're going to trust God give the
hurt to God and let go so number one
remember what forgiveness involves
number two recognize the benefits of
forgiving you let go of the anger you
let go of the resentment and you forgive
others as you want to be forgiven you
see we have to be careful with this one
because what happens as things work on
stairs so for the first step is the
offense and you don't deal with it then
it moves to the second step it moves to
bitterness and you don't deal with it
and then it moves to hate
correct and then it moves to the next
step which is revenge number two has
recognized the benefit of forgiving
number three be empathetic none of us
are perfect amen
be empathetic one of the hard lessons
that I had to learn was that my mother
was not perfect anybody your parents are
not perfect I mean now I'm an adult I
know that I had a good childhood that my
mother did the best that she could with
what she had but when I was a teenager I
used to judge her the Bible says all
have fallen short how many all have
fallen short of the glory of God me
included hello so be empathetic number
four be reasonable be reasonable
one of the reasons that I love to do
visits and I love to do hospital visits
it's because it helps me to put things
in to perspective maybe something
happened in the week and I was a little
annoyed and didn't want to say it or
maybe I was frustrated inside and you
know you're trying to keep up a good
smile but when I go to the hospital and
I see people dealing with real issues of
life and then I put it in perspective
what I was upset about it's a finger
nail compared to what people are really
dealing with be reasonable keep it in
perspective
and the last thing I want to say act
quickly when there's a an offense deal
with it right away
talk to the person get it out don't hold
it in let it go so number 5 forgive
quickly we know this stuff you know it
in the Lord's Prayer let's say it
together and I'm gonna stop you our
Father
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
Thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and four and what and then and lead us
not
I'm gonna close with reading first
Corinthians 13 from the message and it
just speaks in layman's terms but I want
you to hear it again I'm not gonna read
the whole thing if I speak with human
eloquence an angelic ecstasy but don't
love I am nothing but the creaking of a
rusty gate and if I speak God's word
with power revealing his mysteries and
making everything as plain as plain as
day and if I had the faith that says to
a mountain jump and it jumps but I don't
love I'm nothing if I give everything I
own to the poor and even go to the stake
to be burned as a martyr but don't love
I've gotten nowhere so no matter what I
say what I believe and what I do I am
bankrupt without love love never gives
up love cares more for the other than
for self love does not want what it
doesn't have love doesn't strut love
doesn't have a swelled head it doesn't
force itself on others
it isn't always me first it doesn't fly
off the handle love doesn't keep the
score of the sins of others love doesn't
rebel when others grovel love takes no
pleasure I mean love takes pleasure and
the flowering of truth love puts up with
anything love trust always love always
looks for the best it never looks back
but it keeps on going to the end
love never dies let us pray most
gracious God we love you and we thank
you for just a lesson today on
forgiveness of keeping the relationship
right with you making sure that there's
love operating in our homes in our
workplace in the church helping to see
ourselves where we need to to move what
it's always our turn to forgive I pray
today that your message has touched the
heart and if there's someone here under
the sound of my voice that needs to take
action in this regard I pray that you
would help them to do so maybe they
can't take a big step but maybe a baby
step I pray that those who are listening
on livestream that they would take this
opportunity and forgive those who need
to be forgiven and asks also to be
forgiven what I pray that your word
would go forth and accomplish everything
that you've set it out to do but it
would not come back void pray for this
church for this community for your
leaders in this church for every age
group and now let us pray that prayer as
Jesus taught his disciples
our Father who are in heaven
like to read from the Gospel of John
chapter 6 verses 24 to 35 so when the
crowd saw that neither Jesus nor his
disciples were there they themselves got
into the boats and went to Capernaum
looking for Jesus when they found him on
the other side of the sea they said to
him rabbi when did you come here jesus
answered them very truly I tell you
you're looking for me not because you
saw signs but because you ate your fill
of the loaves do not work for the food
that perishes but for the food that
endures for eternal life which the Son
of Man will give you for it is on him
that God the Father has set his seal
then they said to him that you believe
in him whom he has sent
so they said to him what sign are you
going to give us then so that we may see
it and believe you what works are you
going to perform our ancestors 8 manner
in the wilderness and as it is written
he gave them bread from heaven to eat
then Jesus says to them very truly I
tell you it was not Moses who gave you
the bread from heaven but it is my
father who gives you the true bread of
heaven for the bread of God that which
comes down from heaven and gives life to
the world they said to him Sir give us
this bread always Jesus
to them I am the bread of life whoever
comes to me will never be hungry and
whoever believes in Me will never be
thirsty
may the Lord had a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's holy word
may it seemed deep down and bring forth
much fruit the Word of God for the
people of God let us pray most gracious
God I am a sinner saved by your grace
grateful for the gift of salvation but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
I'm putting together some children's
books entitled the wisdom of Grandma
Thelma that's my grandmother and this
one is entitled cooking is a way of
showing your family love the scene I'm
10 years old my brothers and I we have
spent the night at my grandmother's
house and now it's mourning time
imagine the stove would pots percolating
on the top of the stove and good smells
all around anybody know what I'm talking
about and I'm telling you in the oven
there was fresh biscuits baking my older
brothers were in the dining room setting
the table and grandma was cooking up a
storm I mean there was the the basic
stuff eggs bacon and sausage she made
our own sausage by the way fresh
biscuits grits and gravy corned beef
hash because that's what grandpa
granddaddy like so there was even corned
beef hash fresh fruit milk juice and
water so my grandmother set the table
put all the food out my older brother
gave the blessing and we began to serve
ourselves and as I dug in I said grandma
you are an awesome cook she said son you
say that every time I cook for you I
said well it's true and I said grandma
this food is delicious where did you
learn how to cook she said well my
mother was a great cook and she can
seasoned food really well
so I guess I picked up a thing that do
she said but cooking is just sort of
sampling with different things until you
come up with your own recipe and make
something delicious and so I commented
that well grandma and this is truly
delicious and then I made the mistake
anybody ever made a mistake and then I
made the mistake and I said grandma you
are a better cook than our mom I said
then you cook on a different level you
are better cook then my mom and my
grandmother said wait a minute
I'm not a better cook than your mother I
cook differently but not better your
mother is your mom I'm uniquely Thelma
and she's uniquely Shirley but I'm not
better she said boys do you understand
that yes ma'am and then she said
something really interesting she says I
thought you would ask me the question do
I love to cook for the family and so we
responded trying to get a look out of
trouble well grandma do you and she said
yes he said you know I don't have a lot
of money but cooking is a way for me to
show the family how much I love them and
she said that's what soul food is soul
food is not southern cooking or
african-american cooking she said soul
food is taking what you have for
preparing it from the heart that's soul
food and
tried to recover anybody ever try to
recover and I said well ground grandma
thank you so much for loving us to
prepare this meal and she went around
the table and she hugged each one of us
and told us that she loved us but it was
a hug that I will never forget why am i
sharing this story with you I'm sharing
this story with you because my brothers
and I almost missed it
we were so enthralled with fresh
biscuits and gravy and grits and
homemade sausage and bacon that we
almost miss the real point she used
those things to show us how much she
loved us I'm sharing that story with you
because Jesus says I am the bread of
life he's talking about taking the
simple things the staple and most meals
to show us that he could sustain our
lives that he's everything that we're
looking for what are you looking for
you're looking for peace you're looking
for joy what are you looking for he says
I meant I am the bread of life I am what
you're looking for
I could sustain your life it reminds me
of Matthew 7 verses 7 through 8 ask and
it shall be given seek and you will find
knock and the door shall be open to you
for everyone that asks receives and
everyone that seeks finds and to the one
who knocks the door will be open unto
you
he's everything that we need he's
everything that we need when you hear
the message today I'm not just talking
about the physical the biscuits and the
gravy but I'm talking about the
spiritual how God can fill us with
things eternal in verses 32 to 33 Jesus
says Moses was merely God's agent who
gave direction to the people on how to
collect manner but my father in heaven
he's the real Giver
even if you consider Moses to be the
giver he's not but the real giver is my
father the father is right now giving
you the real bread from heaven I am the
bread of life you see isn't it
interesting that if you go back a story
or two ago Jesus multiplied the loaves
and the fish and they're stuck right
there
but Jesus doesn't mean that regular
bread doesn't have any value but he's
saying make him the priority put the
first things first we're good about
feeding ourselves physically sometimes
even taking care of ourselves physically
but the spiritual not so much verse 34
says the people replied Lord give us
this bread it seems like now they
understand but they still are missing
the spiritual application and third and
verse 35 he responds by identify himself
undeniably as the bread of life he says
he who comes to me shall never hunger
and he who believes in Me shall never
thirst he declares that he is the only
permanent satisfaction to our lives you
know we look in all the wrong places for
things to fill our lives to sustain us
Jesus is saying I'm what you're looking
for I am what you have been in search of
your question might be then why did
Jesus say I am the bread of life you
know it comes as this the I am
statements
but it's all relational and you will
remember the other seven I am or the
other six I am statements I am the light
of the world I am the door I am The Good
Shepherd I am the resurrection in the
life I am the way the truth and the life
I am The True Vine and now we have I am
the bread of life how many of you know
that he's the bread of life for your
life
Jesus is amazing in the sense that he
can take anything and teach us a lesson
there is a Native American proverb and
the proverb kind of goes like this teach
me a fact and I'll learn teach me a
truth and I'll believe I share a story
with me and my heart will be changed
forever what I love about the way that
Jesus talked is that he would take the
simple things of life and teach a story
he took bread and taught them the stuff
that they eat every day you remember the
unleavened bread you remember Brad
falling from heaven the stuff that we
eat every day as the staple food to show
them that he could sustain their lives
and even when they missed it
he shows them what's real you know what
I love about this story is that
sometimes it pays to know who you're
talking to anybody know what I'm talking
about now sweetheart I'm gonna I'm gonna
share this I know she's saying in her
mind Oh Lord what is he gonna say now I
don't argue with my wife now I might
state my opposition to something but I
don't argue with her I'm not equipped to
argue with her now you've heard it here
she's a lot smarter than I am I might be
stuck on an argument at the very
beginning she's already six seven steps
ahead of me anybody know what I'm
talking about any men know what I'm
talking about
she's a lot smarter than I am you know I
grew up and we couldn't talk back to my
mother we couldn't reason with my mother
she laid down the law that was it so any
sign of not agreeing with my mother was
a sign of belligerent but a Natalia's
household they were able to to talk and
dialogue and discuss that didn't happen
in my house so I'm ill equipped to argue
so I won't do it but it pays to know who
you're talking to amen it would have
been nice if the disciples understood
that and if these folks in the crowd
understood that but notice what they say
to Jesus is well okay you say that you
the bread of life then give us a sign
as if walking on water was not enough as
if multiplying the bread and the loaves
I mean the the fish were not enough give
us another sign you know what I love
about God is sometime God says time now
God says timeout are you trying to hang
with me so that I might feed you again
you looking for a free meal aren't you
this is layman Terence the Bible doesn't
say this you looking for a free meal
aren't you he says don't work for food
that perishes but work for that which
will endure for eternal life you see
they had missed it
they was excited that he could feed them
and they ate their fill Jesus let's get
to the heart of the matter you're
missing it
you know sometimes we miss it too
how many of you know that this is your
time this is our time to make a
difference in the life of other people
the greatest gift that we can offer the
world is to make an investment investing
in the lives of other people is the
greatest investment that we can make
only what we do for Christ is going to
last but sometimes we miss it too I
don't feel like going to church today I
don't feel like serving up at that
church today every time you turn around
they asking for money anybody know what
I'm talking about
but it's our opportunity to make a
difference in the lives of other people
don't miss your opportunity you know
that's what the enemy would do is
sometimes to to cause strife and
sometimes we leave the church over
simple things little things and enemy
goes yes because he doesn't want to see
our church grow he doesn't want to see
people come to Christ don't miss
the message the message is that he's
calling you and he's calling me to make
a difference but he is the sustainer he
is the bread of life Jesus says anyone
who comes and believe I will sustain
their lives I came across the story that
was beautiful the story has told that as
the world war ii was drawing to a close
the Allied armies gathered up many
hungry orphans they were placed in camps
where they were well fed but despite the
excellent care they slept poorly they
seemed nervous in their sleep and even
afraid and finally a psychiatrist came
up with this idea that they would give a
child a loaf of bread and eat when the
the children went to bed they couldn't
eat it they just had to hold on to it
and it changed everything they slept
peaceful knowing that the next day that
they would have bread Jesus says rest
easy I am the bread of life he who comes
to me will never hunger and he who
believes in Me will never thirst come to
him for soul food Jesus can feed the
soul eternally
let me close with the words from Alan
Jackson from his song leaning on the
everlasting arms what a fellowship what
a joy divided leaning on the other
lasting arms what a blessedness what a
peace of mind leaning on the everlasting
arms
sounds like the bread of life leaning
leaning safe and secure from all alarms
leaning leaning leaning on the
everlasting arms
sounds like the bread of life what have
I to dread what have I to fear leaning
on the everlasting arms I have blessed
peace with my lord so near leaning on
the everlasting arms
sounds like the bread of life leaning
leaning safe and secure from all alarms
leaning leaning leaning on the
everlasting arms let us pray
most gracious God it's amazing how you
can take the simple things of life and
turn it into a story that we will
remember forever that you took bread to
show that you are truly the sustainer of
our lives not our jobs but you Father I
pray today that those who are listening
that their joy might be full and it
might remain simply because they put
their trust in you as the bread of life
Lord only you can do it you're the only
one who can sustain our lives not people
not places and not things coz sustain
our lives not governments not even
leaders only you can sustain our lives
now father we pray for our sick and our
Schutt and those who cannot be here
today Lord we know you to be omnipresent
be with them speak to their hearts let
them feel your spirit and know that they
are never alone Lord we thank you for
Providence this incredible place we
thank you for all of our leaders in this
church we thank you for our children our
children's ministry our music ministry
we thank you for this past week of Kapp
and 11 o'clock service we're going to
see all those beautiful bright faces we
asked for blessing upon them bless this
time and bless this service bless all of
those who have heard your word and now
let us pray that prayer that Jesus
taught us disciple our Father our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil
is one single verse but it's a powerful
verse it's a mouthful some would say but
it's something that we need to visit
often even though this is a hallmark
passage that most of us know this
passage we need to revisit it from time
people who are called by my name will
humble themselves and do what and seek
my face and turn from their wicked ways
then will I hear from heaven and will
forgive their sins and heal their land
then the Lord had a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
made sing deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace but grateful
for the gift of salvation but I'm still
a broken vessel but I know all you have
to do is say the word and I shall be
healed long enough to do your work and
to do your will hide this preacher
behind the cross that your people might
see you and not me that they might hear
you and not me may the words of my mouth
and the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength in my Redeemer force in
Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought prayer changes
everything
prayer changes everything every now and
then I like to look at Christian
magazines and look at different articles
just seeing what's out there and what
folks at
looking about and dr. reverend tony
evans asked this question how do we save
a nation in trouble times rivet the
thought his answer was by prayer by
prayer he goes on to say that america is
in trouble from sea to shining sea we
are witnessing a decline in our nation
the united states is quickly becoming
the divided States disunity and conflict
about their family breakdowns crisis all
over the place
terrorism racial divide and political
dysfunction it all points to a deeper
problem and we know what the deeper
problem is right it's a spiritual
problem amen and he says yet regardless
of which side of the political aisle you
sit on it's clear things are unraveling
at a warp speed like never before we
must pray for our nation and pray for
her leaders as Christians we must ask
are we really going to sit by and watch
our culture fall apart and our families
disintegrate or we go then we must fall
on our knees and pray not talk about
prayer he says but pray not only agree
with the importance of prayer but pray
not only preach about the power of
prayer but pray Billy Graham once said
to get our nation back on his feet we
must first begin by getting on our knees
amen
what I love about
some awesome promises to us but I like
the fact that it starts with if it's
predicated on F we do where God wants us
to do what I love about second
cohort ative mood which means that he's
encouraging us whenever we see God
speaking then in the cohort ative mood
God says do this so that I might bless
you we serve a God who wants to bless us
who wants to give us children good gifts
so God is encouraging us in this text if
my people if who are called by my name
not just anybody but my people will
humble themselves and pray and seek my
face and turn from their wicked ways
then will I hear from heaven and I will
forgive their sin and heal their land
God is encouraging us to pray how many
of you know there's power in prayer
prayer changes everything prayer is an
earthly requests for heavenly
intervention prayer is the tool and the
strategy given to us to pull down
something invisible into something very
visible so what do I mean prayer is
spiritual but it can become tangible are
you with me I mean you don't have money
to pay your rent and you're praying but
you want God to show up and pay that
rent amen so we wanted to turn into
something tangible prayer and acts God's
hand in history like nothing else
because prayer is our communication with
a God who
loves us amen prayer changes everything
what I love about studying the
scriptures and and Barbra you you
understand is you you you did all the
disciples and still teaching them
sometimes in order to make sense of this
particular scripture we might have to go
back what happened before and we might
have to go afterwards and look at why
this is sandwiched in are you with me
and so when we looked at 2nd chronicles
chapter 6 we find that King Solomon had
just finished building the temple and he
offered up a prayer of dedication and
then this prayer Solomon told the Lord
that he wanted to lead his people the
way that God wanted to lead you know
that's pretty important because too
often we want God to do what we want God
to do
amen anybody but Solomon says to the
Lord in this particular passage I'm
going to do it your way and so what
happened after prayer God's glory filled
the temple the people offered sacrifices
and they held a feasts but later that
night the Lord appeared to Solomon again
and this is what he told him he says if
the people ever reject my ways and turn
away from me but then repent I will hear
the prayers of the people in other words
God is getting ready to offer some
warnings and some reassurances some
warnings and some reassurances and why
am I saying this because too often we
want to just walk around talking about
God is love as if God doesn't get tired
as if God is it's not going to bring
judgment
yes god is love and the Bible says that
God is love but I think God gets tired
too and you're going to hear it in the
scripture the glory of the Lord fills
the temple and then God says this later
that night I've heard your prayers I've
chosen this place for myself as a temple
of sacrifices somebody says reassurance
and when I shut up the heavens so that
there is no rain or command locusts to
devour the land or send a plague among
my people and then he goes into the
scripture if my people who are called by
my name will humble themselves and pray
and seek my face and turn from their
wicked ways then I will hear from heaven
and I will forgive their sin and I will
heal their land
somebody says reassurance but second
is tied up with Israel with the temple
and the fact from time to time God's
going to bring judgment it might be in
the form of a drought or locusts or
pestilence taking over the land but
listen to this it comes after few verses
later God says this but if you turn away
he says and forsake me and forsake what
I've done he says I will uproot Israel
from the land which I've given them and
I will reject this temple that I've just
consecrated in my name I will make it a
byword in an object of ridicule for all
people
this temple will become a heap of rubble
and all who pass by will be appalled and
say why has the Lord done such a thing
to this land and to this temple but some
people will answer because they have
forsaken the Lord the god of their
ancestors who brought them out of the
land of Egypt and have embraced of the
Gods worshipping them and serving them
this is why God has brought this
disaster on them can somebody says
warnings reassurances in warnings now
this is an Old Testament passage but I
think it's relevant for us today because
what is saying to us is that when we
reject God there will be consequences
listen my friend you hear me say this
all the time take pur out of the home
take her out of the school take proud of
the public domain of what do you have do
we want God to lead us are we going to
lead ourselves and too often we've got
this attitude that this is my life and
I'll do what I want to do what I love
talking to unbelievers he's talking to
believers he says if my people who are
called by my name we're called by his
name Amen so he's not even addressing
unbelievers he's addressing his people
and he's basically telling us to pray as
believers we ought to pray cannot just
be emphatic about it we as the body of
Christ or to practice a lifestyle of
Prayer hello
but too often prayer is that thing that
we do when we get around to it when I
finish watching my show I'm gonna pray
in honor just do my little devotion do
me do my little upper room I'll get to
it sometimes that's how we treat God
maybe not with our words but with our
actions that's how we treat God
that's how we treat prayer when we get
around to it too often we treat prayer
and God as though God is our cosmic
bellhop just waiting to carry our bags
for us too often we treat prayer and God
like he's a genie in a bottle just rub
it real hard and he'll grant our request
too often we treat prayer and God like
he's our heavenly life God just waiting
to jump in and intercede when the waters
get rough listen to me my friends we
must understand that prayer is the
responsibility of every believer amen
prayer is the responsibility for every
believer every major event every minor
discussion it should be bathed in prayer
and if we are to be christ-like or like
Christ and we must follow him Jesus
didn't pray because he had to Jesus
prayed because he wanted to be in
perpetual communion with the father what
about you and I what's our prayer life
like you know I served in in Bamako Mali
West Africa and it was a Muslim country
and I can learn from anybody but what I
noticed was that no matter what they
were doing they would pray five times a
day
now I'm not Muslim I don't believe what
they believe I'm a Christian but I
thought to give prayer that kind of
power specificity in their life how
powerful is that well we got to do
better then then when I get around to it
and prayer is the last thing that we we
do with some of us we don't pray until
we in trouble hello
prayer is the responsibility of every
believer I have the audacity to believe
that if we did like Jesus and prayed
simply because we wanted to be in
communion with the father then we would
find purpose we would find power to live
this life we would find meaning I
believe that if we did it right now you
said Lord I don't know what my purpose
is I believe God can reveal it to you
Lord I'm lacking this in my life I
believe that God can send it to you how
many of you believe that the question is
will we make prayer a priority it's got
to be a higher priority than our job
it's got to be a higher priority than
our hobbies hello look at the life of
Jesus always found time to pull away he
did some great work you did some great
miracles but he also replenished amen
by finding that time with the father I
came across this about CS Lewis most of
you know about his children's books the
Narnia Chronicles he's also written
adult book
and basically dealt with the Christian
faith but there was a movie called
shadow Lance that was about Lois and
about his wife the story focused in
particular on that relationship and the
woman was joy Gresham who he married
they met while he was lecturing at
Oxford University but they found out
that she had cancer
and they decided to get married the
movie invites us to witness their love
they're paying their grief their
struggles their faith and their
relationship with God
sadly joy died and at one point in the
story a friend says to Lois I know how
hard you've been praying and now
wondering if God has answered your
prayers listen to how Lois replies
that's not why I pray Harry I pray
because I can't help myself I pray
because I'm helpless without prayer I
pray because the need flows out of me
all the time in my waking and in my
sleeping prayer doesn't change god I
didn't think that it would prayer
changes me I match or faith but notice
it's basically like Lewis
saying father I'm coming to you not
because I want anything but I just want
to be with you I just want to fellowship
with you and one of my friends from
Seminary his kids were were young in
early teens when we were in school and
now young adults and so I said well how
are your kids doing he said man they're
doing alright and I said well do you
hear from him often he says every time
they need something I hear from them
what if we were like seus Lewis Lord I
don't need anything I just need to be in
your presence I just need to be with you
not where we're we're calling we're
crying and there's some petition that we
want God do this and God do this like
we're directing God but we're not really
in fellowship anybody know what I'm
talking about came across the story
about Desmond Tutu in May 2001
journalists Giles Brandis interviewed
South African Anglican Archbishop
Desmond Tutu it was a powerful
experience for the journalists because
Desmond Tutu was suffering from prostate
cancer and they didn't know that whether
this would be his last interview so what
would they talk about would they talk
about apartheid would they talk about
the political climate in South Africa
since he's had a lot of work to do with
that no here's what he told Brandes
if this is going to be my last interview
I'm glad we're not gonna talk about
politics but let us talk about prayer
about the love of God about adoration
about faith and hope let's talk about
forgiveness what I like about Desmond
Tutu he got to the heart of it this is
the real stuff that matters prayer let's
talk about it God will pay attention to
our prayers when we come to him humbly
and when we seek his face and when we
turn from our wicked ways humbly when we
show humility meekness lowliness another
definition is the absence of ego the
Greek word translated humility in
Colossians 3 chapter 2 I mean chapter 3
verse 12 in other places is talking
about the lowliness of mind so we see
that humility is an attitude of the
heart and not merely an outward
demeanour one may put on an outward show
of humility but still have a heart full
of pride in arrogance Jesus says those
who are poor in spirit will inherit the
kingdom
those who
that they're spiritually banked for
every believer God has promised to give
grace to the humble
while opposing the proud if my people
who are called by my name would humble
themselves and pray and seek my face
turn from their wicked ways then will I
hear from heaven and will forgive their
sin and heal their land
where's Jim Chapel Jim Chapel come on up
here
Sarah you don't know about this but you
gonna get ready for us y'all can turn
your hymnals to page 368 Jimmy just
going to do the first answer but the
reason why I wanted to do this as a
closing it reminds me of second
chronicles 7
[Music]
you may be seated you sound like a
beautiful choir before Isaac reads the
word to you I'm gonna ask you to think
about these two questions what are the
spiritual blessings in your life are you
loved by God and how do you know what
would you say to somebody if you wanted
them to know that you're loved by God so
as you hear the Scriptures I want you to
be thinking about those questions what
are the blessings in your life are you
loved by God how do you know and what
would you say to someone or what would
you tell them about the love of God
Isaac our second scripture reading this
morning is from Ephesians 1 verses 3
through 14 blessed be the God and father
of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed
us in Christ with every spiritual
blessing in the heavenly places just as
he chose us in Christ before the
foundation of the world to be holy and
blameless before him in love he destined
us for adoption as his children through
Jesus Christ according to the good
pleasure of his will to the praise of
his glorious grace that he freely
bestowed on us in the beloved in him we
have redemption through his blood the
forgiveness of our trespasses according
to the riches of His grace that he
lavished on us with all wisdom and
insight he has made known to us the
mystery of his will according to his
good pleasure that he set forth in
Christ as a plan for the fullness of
time to gather up all things in him
things in heaven and
things on earth in Christ we have also
obtained an inheritance having been
destined according to the purpose of him
who accomplishes all things according to
his counsel and will so that we who were
the first to set our hope on Christ
might live for the praise of his glory
in him you also when you had heard the
word of truth the gospel of your
salvation and had believed in him were
marked with the seal of the promised
Holy Spirit this is the pledge of our
inheritance toward redemption as God's
own people to the praise of his glory
this is the word of God for the people
of God let us pray most gracious God I'm
a sinner saved by your grace and I am so
grateful for the gift of salvation but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought loved by God
loved by God when I began to think about
this message and what the Apostle Paul
was sharing with us I understood that he
was talking about what it means to be
loved by God it's an amazing thing to to
know that God loves us I can't tell you
why he loves me I don't know why God
would desire me but I am so grateful
to know that he loves me there is no one
that loves me like God and I need you to
catch me in the spirit if you will
because if you don't catch me in the
spirit what I'm about to say may not
sound right but God is the best lover of
all no one loves me like God God takes
my highs and my lows and he understands
me no one loves you like God not your
husband not your wife not your mom not
your dad no one loves us like God loves
us are you with me this morning it's my
prayer that as you hear the message
today that you will not walk out of this
place not feeling the love of God that
you will not walk out of this place not
wanting to tell someone else about the
love of God because it's just that
powerful amen there was an emperor in
the Far East who was growing old and he
knew that it was time for him to step
down and he needed to choose a successor
now normally he would have chosen
someone from his own family but he
didn't have any children so he put out a
call to all of the people in the land
and those of noble blood too to bring
their children to the palace and when
all the children came to the palace he
gave each one of them a single seed and
he says I want you to take this seed and
I want you to grow it and in one year's
time I'm gonna call you back
to the palace and I'm going to inspect
your plant and I'm gonna see how you
nurtured it and then I'm gonna choose my
successor one of the boys who was
present
his name was Ling eagerly taking his
seed from the Emperor he ran home to
tell his mother all about it they took
the seed and they potted it and then
they began to take care of it
days went by and and then weeks but
nothing Ling didn't see anything after
about two months he heard that from the
other boys that their plants were
growing and they were sort of bragging
about it but he didn't see anything but
he kept nurturing it for months went by
five months six months still nothing
before you knew it the time had passed
it was time to go see the Emperor Ling
didn't wanna go he he knew that
something had gone wrong he planted the
seed that the Emperor had given him but
it didn't yield anything he didn't want
to go back to the palace with him with
an empty pot but his mother convinced
him look you just have to tell the
Emperor we did everything but we didn't
grow anything so you could imagine with
me him taking this pot back to the
Empress Palace and there when the kid
saw his pot and nothing in it some began
to laugh at him some felt sorry for him
said at least you tried but now it was
time for the Emperor to arrive and when
the Emperor arrived he quickly scanned
the room and he greeted all the young
people of his kingdom one by one he went
around the room complimenting each one
on the the great plants some grew little
trees and flowers just then the Emperor
notice Ling in the back of the room
embarrass Li sort of trying to hide
himself with his empty pot two Ling's
great horror and embarrassment the
Emperor ordered him from the back of the
room to the front of the room
could you imagine the Emperor pointing
at Lane and saying come forward and you
know how we do me you you're talking to
me you want me to come for it and the
King says yes you come forward Ling
comes forward he bowels before the king
and the King says son what is your name
he said sir my name is Ling and to
everyone's surprise in the room the King
spoke loudly and he says behold your new
emperor his name is Ling turning towards
the crowd the Emperor proceeded to tell
them why he had chosen lean to be the
Emperor he says although you mock him
now Ling's empty pot is a good thing
you see I gave every one of you a seed
but it was a bald seed it wasn't suppose
to yield anything it wasn't going to
yield anything and then I noticed that
some of you unfairly substituted it for
another seed hoping that you might
impress me and that I might make you the
Emperor but only lien had the courage in
the honesty to bring me a pot containing
the seed that I gave him therefore I
choose him this day to be my successor
we look at a story like this and we see
that the essence is really about us
trusting God and God trusting us God
sees everything but he's also looking
for those of us who are worthy of his
love this is what the Apostle Paul wants
us to see this is what the passo Paul
was trying to get over to the Ephesian
community he wanted them to know about
the love of God this epistle of
Ephesians is what they call a prison
epistle Paul wrote this while he was in
prison and the key personalities and
Ephesians are the Apostle Paul in
tequilas this epistle was written to
encourage the believers
to walk as fruitful followers of Christ
to walk in unity to walk in love even
though that they were being persecuted
in this chapter Paul begins with this
joyful truth that every believer has
been chosen by God before the
foundations of the world can you get
your mind around this that you and I
were chosen before the foundations of
the world it's kind of like the passage
that says before you were in your
mother's womb I knew you can you get
your mind around that
that before your mom and dad ever came
together before my mom and dad ever came
together we were on god's mind that's
love amen that's love and the Apostle
Paul is saying this is a powerful thing
God knows you and he loves you and then
in verse 4 he talks about we've been
blessed with every spiritual blessing
and then he says we are adopted as sons
and daughters of Jesus Christ
verse 5 all believers are redeemed
through his blood verse 7
we've been sealed by the Holy Spirit so
what are these blessings that the
Apostle Paul is talking about in verse 3
he says that we've been blessed
with spiritual blessings of Christ what
he's talking about is that this is not
some mysterious power of a cosmic
connection but he's talking about the
blessings of having a relationship with
Jesus Christ the Apostle Paul says it
makes all the difference having a
relationship with Jesus Christ as a plan
of God the Father it makes all the
difference how many of you know that to
be true that me plus God I'm a majority
you plus God you are a majority in that
awesome and that's what the Apostle Paul
wants to get over that we have these
spiritual blessings
and then he says that we were chosen by
God before the foundations of the world
but the word blessing let me go back for
a second the word blessing comes from
the Greek word eulogy and it means to
speak well of and since God is the one
acting in this verse we can say that we
are well spoken of by God that God knows
us He loves us and he speaks well about
us over us in it awesome
earlier today when I asked Natalia what
are the spiritual blessings and she
talked about Joshua always having
something good to say about his mama he
speaks well of his mama the creator of
the universe speaks well over you and I
isn't that awesome I'm talking about the
love of God and I just can't get over
the fact that he chose us before the
foundation of the world and then the
second blessing is that we are adopted
as sons and daughters
we're not orphans but we've been adopted
as sons and daughters I came across this
story it was of a young couple who was
visiting sort of a boarding home and
they were looking for a child to adopt
and the caretaker of this home brought
all of the children out before this
couple but the children were cleaned up
freshly bathed well dress
properly schooled in manners because of
course they want these children to be
adopted but as the couple pass through
they asked the caretaker do you have any
more children he replied but these are
our best kids they've been bathed they'd
been schooled in manners you-you-you
want one of these kids and the couple
said do you have any more children he
says we've got one kid in the back but
he hasn't been washed up he hasn't been
cleaned can you bring him out they asked
I'll bring him out but you really don't
want this kid his mother didn't even
want him he's wild he he's not well
mannered we have a lot of problems with
this kid could you please bring him out
they asked he brought him out young
boy's face was dirty hair matted clothes
torn no shoes on his feet
and he stood next to the other kids and
he was sort of embarrassed to be because
they were bathed and they had new
clothes and and yet he was standing
there the couple began to weep and the
couple said we want this child
but the caretaker says why in the world
would you want this child he's not as
nice as the other kids we've got
problems with him and they said we see
the blessings of God for our home in
this child we see hope for him
and we see hope for us and the caretaker
said should I clean them up and the
couple said no we will take him right
now just as he is my friends that's how
God sees us he'll take us right now just
as we are you know there are people who
think that they gotta fix themselves up
and clean up before they come to God
it's not true
God wants us just as we are
but right now I'm talking about the love
of God you've heard the song just as I
am but listen to the verse just as I am
without one plea but that thy blood was
shed from me and that thou biddest me
come to thee O Lamb of God I come just
as I am though tossed about with many a
conflict many a doubt Fighting's and
fears within without Oh Lamb of God I
come I'm talking about love of God I'm
talking about what the Apostle Paul is
talking about is that these spiritual
blessings that we have been blessed with
that we've been blessed with the favor
of God the love of God and the Apostle
Paul is saying it's nothing like it it's
nothing like it Joel Osteen says it like
this that you and I
or a masterpiece he goes on to say a
masterpiece is not mass-produced that we
don't come off of an assembly line we
are custom-made what God is most proud
of is not the spectacular solar system
what God is most proud of is not the
magnificent sunsets not even the amazing
adoring animals the creation that God is
most proud of is his masterpiece is you
is you now you might look at yourself
and say me and I say yes you you are his
masterpiece because he created you and I
in his image he looks right past all of
his creation and he points out and he
says that's my masterpiece there's my
daughter there's my son God is so proud
of us he's so in love with us sometimes
because of our daily grind we we miss it
we wake up in the morning Isaac and we
go through our day and for some of us
that work we work and for some of us
that don't work we we finds things to do
and before you know what evening comes
and we have our evening meal we read the
paper we watch the news and we kiss our
spouse goodnight and our children
goodnight and it starts all over again
and we miss the fact that we have a
savior who
who wants to be in fellowship with us
listen my friends when I talk to people
about the love of God every time I have
and I say to someone I don't know what
you're going through but I want you to
know that God loves you and when I say
that every single time a tear would fall
from that person's eye and they would
say but how do you know he loves me and
I would say because he created you and
he sent me to be his mouthpiece today to
tell you that he loves you and that he's
got a plan and a purpose for your life
plans to to bless you and not to harm
you plans as Jeremiah says to give you a
future and to give you a hope and every
time I've shared that with people they
come back and they say thank you nobody
ever told me that but I was loved by God
and that God is in love with me
he's the greatest lover no one will love
you like God loves you I don't care what
that man says I don't care how nice he
says it I don't care what that woman has
said I don't care how nice she says it
no one will ever love you more than God
loves you no one so I'm gonna ask this
question and Isaac I'm gonna start with
you
how do you know you're loved by God
and what would you say to somebody come
and take the mic up there so folks can
hear you I know that I am loved by God
because the Bible says that those that
he loves he also chases or he corrects
and when he corrects us that means that
He loves us because correction comes
after we have made a mistake and so
we've made some mistakes in our lives a
man a man but God through his love and
His grace loves us so much and His grace
and mercy that he gives to us he
corrects us it says wait a minute my son
wait a minute my daughter go this way I
prepared the path for you so I know that
God loves me amen amen
thank you so much Laura I know you're
here and I want you to talk to us about
the love of God
[Music]
amen
thank you so much brother Alan talk to
us about the love of God
throughout my life I've had experiences
were a men thank you
Jimmy I can't let you get away I know
you're up there but Jimmy talked to us
about the love of God just shout it out
[Laughter]
and you do that so well amen
Jim chap will come to the end I want you
to talk to me talk to me about the love
of God amen thank you so much Gary VES
where are you I'm coming tell me about
the love of God yes sir
stand up stand up please
amen I'm gonna come to Hugh Harris and
tend to Althea and we're gonna start a
men thank you
Althea talked to us about the love of
God amen amen
jesus loves me this I know for the Bible
tells me so little ones to him belong
they are weak but he is strong yes jesus
loves me yes jesus loves me yes jesus
loves me the Bible tells me so
Isaac would you lead us in prayer before
we begin to pray I want you to hold the
hand of the person sitting next to you
because we are all joined together as
the body of Christ and Jesus left us
commandment he said love ye one another
love your brothers and your sisters so
God loves us but we have to reach out to
our brothers and sisters and love them
also why because he told us to and I
don't want to be disobedient so let us
pray most gracious God we thank you
today thank you for your love God that
you've shown us even when sometimes we
don't think that we deserve it Lord
Father thank you for correcting us God
those times when we've made a mistake
get all this what is this wisdom that
has been given to him what deeds of
power are being done by his hand is not
this the carpenter
you
and among their own kin and in their own
house and he could do no deed of power
there except that he laid his hands on a
few sick people and cured them and he
was amazed at their unbelief then he
went about among the villages teaching
he called the twelve and began to send
them out two by two and gave them
authority over the unclean spirits he
ordered them to take nothing for their
journey except a staff no bread no bag
no money in their belts but to wear
sandals and not to put on two tunics he
said to them wherever you enter a house
stay there until you leave the place if
any place would not welcome you and they
refuse to hear you as you leave shake
off the dust that is on your feet as a
testimony against them so they went out
and proclaimed that all should repent
they cast out many demons and anointed
with oil many who were sick and cured
them this is the word of God for the
people of God let us pray most gracious
God I am a sinner saved by your grace
but I'm so grateful for the gift of
salvation but I am a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you were not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking with
the thought
set apart for the work of ministry set
apart for the work of ministry Leslie
Ludi and her podcasts entitled living a
poured out life she says that we live in
a very selfish world a self worshipping
culture
she said you constantly hear messages
like go for your dreams do what makes
you happy and follow your heart and then
she says but Jesus has a very different
message and his messages I didn't come
to make you happy I came to make you
holy and I came to tell you that you
have been set apart for the work of
ministry Matthew 16 verse 24 says if
anyone would come after me let them deny
themselves and take up their cross and
follow me
to deny literally means to lose sight of
oneself to lose one owns interest in
Ephesians chapter 2 verses 10 the
Apostle Paul reminds us that we're
created in Christ Jesus for the good
works which God has prepared beforehand
that we should walk in them so when we
understand this concept that we are to
deny ourselves to lose sight of our own
self-interest and to take up the cross
and to follow him and that he has
prepared in advance good works
for us to walk in then we will begin to
realize that this life isn't so much
about pleasing us but it's about being
set apart for the work of ministry as we
look at the text this morning that was
read in your hearing is easy for us to
miss the main point of the text perhaps
that wouldn't happen to marks readers
but for us were so removed from when
this text was written and we didn't grow
up with a Jewish upbringing we we might
miss the real meaning of the story we
know that when theologians talked about
Christian Christology it was a way of
talking about God being fully human and
fully divine so of course I'm not
expecting the people from Jesus hometown
to have gotten that message but they
miss the main point of the text in the
main point of the text is that Jesus is
set apart for the work of ministry and
they missed it by a mile partly because
they thought they knew who Jesus was
last week Isaac did a great job bringing
us the message and and let's give him a
hand for for serving
[Applause]
and he talked about the woman with the
issue of blood and Jarius the synagogue
leader who asked Jesus to heal his
twelve-year-old daughter but then Jesus
moves to his hometown of Nazareth
Nazareth was a small town about 300
people everybody knew everybody
everybody knew everybody's business it
was a small place it was an agricultural
town the archaeology shows that the town
was where grapes were stored and wine
was pressed you see earlier 3 years
earlier Jesus had left his hometown and
began to do his ministry in the
northeast end of Galilee about 30 miles
away and now he's coming back imagine
with me Jesus coming back to his
hometown I imagine he couldn't wait to
get home I don't know about you but when
I go home wherever my mother is she
prepares certain things that I like to
eat they're not healthy but they're very
good so when you going home you can
expect some of these things to go back
to the house that you grew up in the
house where it all began and this is
what Jesus did and imagine with me that
as he's visiting his hometown just a few
days later he would do what he would was
would normally do he would go to church
he would go to the synagogue and let me
just say that just like in the Church of
England you couldn't go there and
because you claim to be a pastor just
walk into that pulpit and speak you had
to have strong credentials it would
probably have to be invited
to speak even though you had strong
credentials you see back in Jesus days
you know a rabbi in training had to work
with a a well-known rabbi a
well-respected rabbi and that's how you
earned your voice but in this particular
day it doesn't seem like it's the case
for Jesus however he's recognised as
competent and he's allowed to speak and
even so he would have only had a few
minutes to speak you see in this culture
the message was not the main part of
worship the main part of worship were
scripture reading and it was the prayers
and so in so doing Jesus would have only
had a short time to bring a message we
don't know what he said
scripture doesn't tell us but what we do
know is whatever he said many of them
were amazed at what he said apparently
he captured their attention perhaps what
he said was so authentic and so genuine
that it caused them to listen I imagined
that his message would have been clear
and straightforward
I imagined his message being opened and
honest and straight to the point
I imagined them saying to themselves is
this not the same person that we grew up
with is this Jesus who lives right over
there speaking like this and then the
scripture says and then they took an
offense
at what it's at what he said you see
when Jesus came back he was he was
different and those who listened to
really listened to his words they were
amazed they clearly heard about his
ministry remember we said that Jesus was
only thirty miles away but word-of-mouth
was so powerful in this day yes I know
they didn't have TV and they didn't have
magazines and newspapers and internet
but word-of-mouth got around they heard
about the healings they heard about the
lame walking the blind being able to see
they heard about the people who were
raised from the dead but what's
interesting is they behaved as though
they haven't heard the message perhaps
they said to themselves we know this guy
who does he think he is
we know his mom in his dad perhaps Jesus
message was a little uncompromising and
then they said who does he think he is
perhaps Jesus spoke a few hometown
truths and perhaps they said he speaks
the language but on whose authority who
is he to come here and tell us how we
should live he's just a carpenter he's a
man who spends his life making furniture
and repairing furniture that's who he is
that's what he does that's not who he is
but that's what they probably said to
themselves
so who does this guy think he is he's
just a carpenter a repairman I don't
know about you but you might say he's
just a copper - and he's just a
repairman but he's come to earth to
repair our broken lives how many of you
know what I'm talking about he's come to
repair my life and because of it I've
never been the same you see what they
did not see was that God's hands was on
him they didn't see that he had been set
apart for the work of ministry they said
he's just a carpenter that's all he is
what they miss was that he was set aside
set apart for the work of ministry what
they missed is that God's holiness
pervades his entire beam and all of its
attributes what they missed is the fact
that his love is a holy love that His
mercy is a holy mercy what they miss was
that his anger is even a righteous anger
you see sometimes it's hard to
understand God I'm talking about in
God's entirety it's hard to to
understand when we say God the Father we
were not looking at a man
God is spirit God is not a composite
being two eyes a nose and a mouth God is
spirit are you with me
when we look at the Apostles Creed it
talks about Jesus coming from the Father
and then it begins to talk about the
Holy Spirit coming from both the father
and the son you know one of the problems
we have in this text is that when you
grow up especially in a small town
everybody thinks they know who you are
I was talking to Emma Breeden when I was
preaching this morning and I said Emma
you grew up in this church and I
imagined that most people said always
and she such a beautiful little girl
she's so smart and and she's so this and
we fail to see the growth in her life
when I go back to my hometown my
brothers and my sisters they still talk
about things I did when I was 14 years
old you know I was a prankster at 14 I
was pretty good at it but that's not
what we're gonna talk about it's if I
haven't grown up I'm married I've got a
son the Lord has blessed me to be here
as the the preacher of this church can't
we talk about some of those things why
is it that every time we get together I
gotta talk about what I did at 14
anybody know what I'm talking about I'm
not the same Derek I was last year
there's been some growth in my life
praise the Lord amen and this is what
happened when they looked at Jesus
that's all they saw was the guy next
door
we know his mom and we know his dad and
they took it offense
who does he think he is they didn't
realize that Jesus was set apart for the
work of ministry so when we say set
apart I know your implicit question is
what do you mean can I give you an
example you remember in Genesis when God
spoke to Abraham and he told them to
leave his family to leave his hometown
to go to the place that he would show
him Abraham had a choice he could have
obeyed God and he could have chose to
stay right where he was in his father's
place but we know the story he chose to
obey God and because he did it set him
apart not just physically from everyone
but mentally emotionally and spiritually
he was set apart so what does set apart
mean I'm going to give you a few
definitions to be set apart it means to
keep or to save something for a
particular purpose and to be a quality
that makes someone or something better
than or different set apart to be set
apart means that God has his hands on
you for a very specific purpose that God
wants to use you you know what the
problem is in many churches we think
that God is only called the pastor to
serve and that's what we pay the pastor
to do but maybe that's one way to look
at it but maybe we should look at being
set apart as the pastor's job being set
apart maybe we ought to look at it
as what does it mean to be set apart as
a Christian amen because when we do that
that means that we've all been set apart
for the work of ministry and that God is
calling us to do his great work set
apart means to be marked by God for a
particular purpose I've shared this
story and I'll share it again that when
I was six years old lady asked my mother
to bring all of her children to her we
were in the church and my mom brought
all of us my sister and my five brother
my four brothers me six of us and she
went by and she touched our heads and
she was looking at us in the face and
when she got to me she says this is the
one my mother said the one for what she
says this is the one who has the mark of
the preacher scared the life out of me
I'm looking over my shoulder for this
mark on me and my mother said what does
that mean and the lady says he's been
set aside for the work of ministry Peter
says it this way in 1st Peter chapter 2
verses 9 through 10 but you are a chosen
race a royal priesthood a dedicated
nation of God's own choosing that we are
to tell the world about God's good deeds
the one who's called us out of darkness
into the marvelous light that's our role
we've been set apart to do this great
work Romans 12
verses 1 & 2 says I beseech you
therefore brethren by the mercies of God
that ye present your body as a living
sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God
we've been set apart to do this great
work I want you to touch a neighbor
touch the person next to you and say
you've been set apart for the work of
ministry it's alright because I want you
to get this into your spirit the church
has been set apart to do the work of God
to please God and our work is not for
God to make us happy but to make us holy
and as Christians we've been set apart
for the Great Commission to go into the
highways in the byways and to compel
them and to make disciples of Jesus
Christ you've been set apart to do this
great work John 15 verse 16 says it this
way Jesus tells his disciples you didn't
choose me but I chose you you didn't
choose me but I chose you that you might
go out and bear much fruit
we've been set apart to do this great
work that the Lord has for us and
sometimes we've been set apart for holy
moments let me share one with you I was
on a flight coming back from San Diego
this past Friday and I noticed a woman
getting on the plane she had a little
dog with her and he had a little vest
that said
helped on the vest and I noticed her
walk
she walked somewhat feeble but what I
didn't know is that she was coming to
sit in the aisle where I was sitting and
some how she got the dog underneath the
the seed and she sat down and I
introduced myself she introduced herself
and I said are you okay and she says I
have an autoimmune disease and she went
to went on to explain it and I said I'm
not talking about that I'm talking about
the sadness behind your eyes she said
you can see that I said yes
she says I'm flying into DC to bury my
father my father died and she says I'm
supposed to speak at his funeral but I
don't know what to say I don't know
where to begin
and she says and I'm scared about that
so maybe that's the sadness that you saw
behind my eyes I said well today is your
lucky day
she said I just told you that my dad
died and how could it be my lucky day
and I said because I'm a pastor and I
said for some reason God would have me
to sit next to you and we have a four
and a half hour flight and I'm gonna
help you write that eulogy and she said
you would do that for me I said yes
ma'am and there we were working it out
talking about it
here's what I want you to hear only God
could have done that do you know how
many things had to line up for that to
happen only God could have done that but
I knew that I was set aside to do the
work of the master before we got off the
plane
she said Reverend parson I said yes
ma'am she said I was getting on the
plane I'm walking down the aisle trying
to find my seat but I was thinking about
speaking at my father's funeral and all
I said to the Lord was lord I don't know
what to say you have to help me and I
sit next to you a minister who's been
doing this for 21 years what is the
likelihood of that she says I just want
to thank God for you and I want to thank
you for taking the time to help me I
said it was my pleasure
here's what I want you to hear you've
been set aside to do the great work of
God we all have been set set apart to do
this great work every one of us when you
gave your life to Christ
you've been set apart for this great
work of ministry now what I hope you
don't do is to be like the people in
Jesus hometown that you miss that that
you miss the point that God's hands are
also on you for such a time as this to
make a difference Isaac you've been set
apart to do this great work of ministry
Janet you've been set upon to play this
music in such a way that it will bring
us into a worshipful experience are you
with me some of you have the gift of
hospitality you can make people feel
welcome
Jeanne chapel is back there
you can talk to her for five minutes and
it's like eating mom's homemade apple
pie anybody know what I'm talking about
but she's been set aside set apart for
this great work of ministry Billy
Waltons back there and he's an
electrical genius he can just do things
that most of us can't do but guess who
he's doing it for he's doing it for the
Lord he understands how God has wired
him that he's been set apart to do this
great work of ministry Tyler you've been
set apart to do this great work of
ministry for the Lord Church
we've been set apart to do this great
work for the Lord don't miss that this
morning don't say the pastor talked
about his calling
it's about your calling - it's about our
calling together don't miss it
Isaac would you come and close the
message with a word of Prayer right most
gracious God we thank you for this
message on today Lord and we thank you
that this message Lord that we will
carry with us that we have been set
apart because your word says we are
peculiar people and because of that we
are yours Lord and father we thank you
that sometimes put labels on us but we
are not impacted by that because we're
not who people say that we are but we
are who you say that we are we are your
children and Lord we thank you that we
may not miss our day of this
Lord just like Christ came back home and
they're missed it altogether they missed
the mark because he was there to give
them a word give them healing but lord
help us not to miss our time in our day
of visitation for God we think you on
today for when Jesus came he also taught
his disciples that prayer he said our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who trust
our next grifter reading is from first
Thessalonians chapter 2 verses 1 through
12 you yourselves know brothers and
sisters that are coming to you was not
in vain but though we had already
suffered and been shamefully mistreated
at Philippi as you know we had courage
in our guard to declare to you the
gospel of God in spite of great
opposition for our appeal does not
spring from deceit or impure motives or
trickery but just as we have been
approved by God to be entrusted with the
message of the gospel even so we speak
not to please mortals but to please God
who tests our hearts as you know and as
God is our witness we never came with
words of flattery or with the pretext
for greed nor did we speak praise from
mortals whether from you or from others
though we might have made demands as
apostles of Christ but we were gentle
among you like a nurse tenderly caring
for her own children so deeply do we
care for you that we are determined to
share with you not only the gospel of
God but also our own selves because you
have become very dear to us
you remember our labor and toil brothers
and sisters we work night and day so
that we might not burden you burden any
of you while we proclaim to you the
gospel of God you are witnesses and God
also how pure upright and blameless our
conduct was toward you believers as you
know we dealt with each one of you like
a father with his children
urging and encouraging you and pleading
that you lead a
life worthy of God who calls you into
his own Kingdom and glory
this is the Word of God for the people
of God most gracious God I'm a sinner
saved by your grace be grateful for the
gift of salvation you know how to give
your children good gifts but I am a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought follow the
leader follow the leader General
Eisenhower demonstrated the art of
leadership with a few of his staff and
he took out a string and he put it on
the table and he says when you pull it
it will follow but if you push it it
goes nowhere and so he says when we lead
the people let's lead them by example
how many of you ever play
follow-the-leader anybody and so for
those of you who have not played it
there's one player that's the leader and
he begins moving around or she moving
around and moving their arms around it
you have to mimic whatever they do if
they scratch their head furiously then
you got to do the same thing but whoever
does not do what the leader does they're
out of the game or if you're moving too
slow to follow the leader then you are
out of the game and the last person
standing becomes the leader so what's
the objective it is to observe closely
and to use the power of mimicking to
advance to the winner's circle I don't
know about you but when I thought about
this I said I'm gonna follow Jesus
example anybody he's a good person to
follow what I love about this text today
is Paul the Apostle Paul basically says
to them follow me as I follow Christ I
like that too because I'm doing my best
to do it the way that God would have me
to do it but all of us have played
follow the leader and every now and then
you would get somebody up there doing
something really foolish and then we
would opt not to follow them and we
would just step aside but that happens
in real life too doesn't it
that some of our leaders some of us
would opt not to follow are you with me
this morning but too often what happens
is we put leaders on a pedestal and we
glorify leaders and we don't glorify God
and what happens is most of
we get disappointed anybody with me you
know what I'm talking about so let me
just say it emphatically I'm not
interested in clergy worship I don't
want somebody to to have glowing things
to say about me I want to point you to
Christ I want your eyes fixed on the
Savior who loves you and if I've done
that then I've done my job
amen but too often we follow leaders who
that really don't have a servant's heart
they might like power and all the things
that come with it but we ought to follow
leaders who have servant hearts leaders
who will do gods bidding you see when we
have a servant's heart then we'll seek
God when we have a servant's heart will
seek the Word of God and God's name will
be glorified what I like about this text
this morning is that the Church of
Thessalonica
was in Paul's opinion a model Church
Paul said that they had great faith and
their faith was worth talking about
wouldn't that be nice if somebody was
just looking in our lives and said you
know he's got the kind of faith that I
want to talk about she's got the kind of
faith that I like to talk about Paul was
proud of this church but when they came
under persecution he became worried
about how they would handle things let
me give you a little background of the
text
Paul had a short time to to go there and
to begin this church and he had great
success but there were some folks who
was angry about Paul's success and so
when Paul was away then these critics
began to talk bad about him
and they said where is Paul he's
supposed to be a great leader why would
he leave you in the night I mean did he
say goodbye and so they came to try to
take away Paul's ministry but what
really happened was earlier Paul Silas
and Timothy was in Philippi and there
was a young slave there who could tell
fortunes and Paul cast that demon out of
this woman and when the her master her
owner realized that he had taken away
their opportunity for income they
dragged him before the officials they
strip Paul and his friends and they were
beaten with rods and then they was
thrown into prison and so Paul is
writing this letter to say to the Church
of Thessalonica be encouraged everything
I told you is true God is with you God's
got a plan don't listen to these
false teachers who want to come against
all that we have shared with you but
trust God continue to be the great
church that you are and one of the other
things that was going around was talk
about when Jesus would come back and you
know how we do we we talk like that we
talk about the signs of the time we say
things like oh we we're going to hell do
you see what's happening in the world
you see all these bad things that are
happening it's because we're in the last
days anybody ever heard stuff like this
let me help you
scripture says no one knows the day nor
the hour that the son of man is coming
back not even the son but only the
father so we can take that off the table
amen that's what the scripture says and
so Paul what I love about this is that
Paul wanted to encourage the
Thessalonians he wanted them to know
that God is still with them what I like
about this whole thing with Paul is
sometimes we are a good church until
something bad happens to us and we act
as if nothing's ever bad is supposed to
happen to a Christian you know we quote
scripture Isaac we say well we're in the
world but we're not of the world so why
are these things happening to us
life happens amen
this folks who want to get rid of stress
and say I thought that when I became a
Christian I could just get rid of stress
anybody want to know how to get rid of
stress die that's the only way we're
gonna get rid of stress stress is a part
of our lives the only way to get rid of
stress
is to die Paul shares with them he's
realistic and I love it he says we've
met opposition you're going to meet
opposition it's a part of life if you
are parent you going to meet opposition
are you with me if you work at a job
you're gonna meet opposition if you're
in the church you're gonna meet some
opposition hello every Church I've ever
been at there are people who like you
and they're people who you're just not
their cup of tea but let me just tell
you as a pastor you have to love
everybody I didn't say like everybody I
said love everybody Amen that's what our
role is but you will you're going to
meet opposition you think that the
runner running down the field with the
football is not going to meet in the
opposition
he's gonna meet a whole lot of
opposition if they can catch up with him
we're gonna meet opposition
let's just get used to it it's a part of
what we have to do some of you own your
own business and I can say I'm sure that
you two have met opposition the Apostle
Paul just wanted to make sure that they
understood this principle that God is
with us that he promised never to leave
us and that God would be with us even
unto the ends of the age so what kind of
leader are you sherry in her message
this morning to the children she says
we're all leaders the question is what
kind of leader
we are we active or inactive are we
serving them actively or we Benchwarmers
Paul says stand up for Jesus in spite
out of opposition jesus said it this way
this is the verdict white has come into
the world but men and women loved
darkness instead of light lies instead
of the truth because their because their
deeds are evil this is John 3 verse 19
they would want to hear lies more than
they want to hear the truth here's the
truth Hebrews 11 it says God's prophets
in the Old Testament were thrown into
prison some were stoned some were sawed
in two some were put to death to death
by a sword some were persecuted and many
were mistreated in other words it's time
for courage you need to have courage
you see courage doesn't mean that we
don't fear courage means we stay the
course
even though we fear how many of you know
what I'm talking about that even when
the things don't work out the way that
we want we stay the course and we trust
God through it all
what I love about the word what I love
about being a preacher's that the task
is to preach in season and out of season
what does that mean it means we have to
preach it when people like it and we've
got to preach it when people don't like
it scripture says that the Word of God
is there to correct us sometimes to
rebuke us but always to encourage us God
speaks in the cohort ative he says do
this so that I might bless you and
that's the kind of God that we serve who
wants to bless us good leaders have
courage in the face of opposition good
leaders are driven by purpose leaders
have to keep their sight on the main
things or they too can get caught up and
lose their goal
Paul says we're not trying to please men
but we're pleasing God and what we do
you know that's one of our hangups
sometimes it's sometimes rather than
serving God we fall into that place
where we become people pleasers I get it
we want to be liked
we don't want folks mad at us we want to
fit in we don't want to rock the boat
but as believers we have to stand up for
Christ are you with me this morning
maybe one person went to Sunday school
are you with me this morning we've got
to stand up for God and we've got to
please God the Bible says that without
faith it's impossible to please them
we've got to stay focus on the main
thing
for me it's about Jesus Christ so it's
not about anything I want to do gods
bidding Harriette Truman says it this
way he says it isn't polls or public
opinions that count it's about right and
wrong in the leadership of men and women
who are fortified with honesty and
belief belief enough in the right thing
to do the right thing you see good
leaders have integrity and what I love
about this scripture is Paul had
integrity Paul was willing to to show
himself he was willing to unmask himself
so that you can see him for who he is he
says we didn't come with any trickery we
didn't come wearing a mask we came just
sharing the Word of God with you so that
this joy that I have you could have it
too Paul is saying to the best of our
ability we didn't want to be a burden to
you we worked night and day doing other
things so that we wouldn't be seen as
those who would come before you with
greed and Paul's message is simply this
follow me as I follow Christ follow me
as I follow Christ there was a poem I
came across and it says follow me the
Lord has says come follow me man replied
just let me be the Lord says the meaning
of right is not man says I need all of
these things that I just brought
always there's conflict between the
divine and man's declaring this thing
it's mine
but someday when all is stripped away
all of the riches and the glory of this
present day then what soul trembling
you'll hear the Lord say what get what
good did you do along this earth this
day and then only God's Amazing Grace
will allow you to enter into his holy
place
Elisabeth Ruth and lastly bill Killebrew
talks about there are three kinds of
Christians and he says this first one I
hope I'm not this he says but I wonder
when I go through trials and I say Lord
why are you putting all of this on me am
i are Fairweather Christian if I'm a
Fairweather Christian perhaps I seem to
believe and even honestly think I
believe what everything is going well
then God is with me but when things are
not going well
I blame God and through my actions I
turn against him what kind of Christian
are you are you a Fairweather Christian
what do you do when you go through
trials how do you handle it and the
second is a carefree Christian this of
course
or Christians of the opposite kind those
that cling to the boy to the buoy and
storming whether they just float along
carefree but they don't really spend any
time with God they're not really growing
are you a carefree Christian and then
the third he says I hope I'm this I
really do hope that I'm this Christian a
thankful Christian the third kind of
Christian is the kind of Christian that
I hope to be and I hope to be most of
the time this type is thankful for the
blessings and they turn to God with
Thanksgiving for all that God has done
for them when things go sour this
Christian turns to God and ask God for
direction even when God says no to this
Christian they try to understand and
they pray for more understanding even
when all of the disturbances happen
somehow they have peace in the midst of
the storm
so kill bro asked the question what kind
of Christian are you what kind of
Christian am I
I pray that we're the kind of people who
don't run when the storms come but that
we would plant our feet and trust God
when the storms of life come maybe we
can pray in and ask God to mature
because one of the things that I've
learned you know scripture says trials
and tribulations come to make us strong
have you ever prayed Lord I'm strong
enough anybody else so that I don't want
any more trials I'm strong enough I'm
good I'm good but sometimes God allows
struggle in our lives I know that sounds
weird that God would allow this struggle
to come into our lives sometimes God
allows struggle because sometimes is
when we we're in the struggle that we
trust them more anybody know what I'm
talking about
somehow we're in the struggle we lean on
God
and we begin to depend on him the
Apostle Paul said it best
whatsoever stayed up on myself in there
and to be content he lived with the
promise knowing that God was with him at
all times
so I want you to take the hand of the
person next to you
and Isaac would you come and close us in
prayer let us pray
most gracious God we thank you thank you
for your word on today Lord that we may
follow you and not follow man that we
may please you and not please man for
God you said we are peculiar people when
we've been set apart to do your will and
do your purpose god we thank you that as
we are joined together this morning Lord
as one body in Christ father's
gentleness God continue to lift us up
for we know that we will have situations
and circumstances in our lives but when
the tsunami comes Lord that we won't be
overtaken by the tsunami but we will be
able to ride the wave of the tsunami
because we are mature in Christ and we
have been raised up above the tsunami
Lord we thank you God that you continue
to move Molly in each and every person's
life here today
a second scripture reading this morning
is from First Samuel Chapter eight
verses four through twenty then all the
elders of Israel gathered together and
came to Samuel at Rama and said to him
you are old and your sons do not follow
in your ways a point for us then a king
to govern us like other nations but the
thing displeased Samuel when they said
give us a king to govern us Samuel pray
to the Lord
and the Lord said to Samuel listen to
the voice of the people in all that they
say to you for they have not rejected
you but they have rejected me from being
king over them just as they have done to
me from the day I brought them up out of
Egypt to this day forsaking me and
serving other gods so also they are
doing to you
now then listen to their voice only you
shall solemnly warn them and show them
the ways of the king who shall reign
over them so Samuel reported all the
words of the Lord to the people who were
asking him for a king he said these will
be the ways of the king who will reign
over you he will take your sons and
appoint them to his chariots and to be
his horsemen and to run before his
chariots and he will appoint for himself
commanders of thousands and commanders
of 50s and some to plow his ground and
to reap his harvest and to make his
implements of war and the equipment of
his chariots he will take your daughters
to be perfumers and cooks and bakers he
would take the best of your fields and
vineyards and olive orchards and give
them to his courtiers he would take one
tenth of your grain
and of your vineyards and give it to his
officers and his courtiers he will take
your male and female slaves and the best
of your cattle and donkeys and put them
to his work he will take one tenth of
your flocks and you shall be his slaves
and in that day you will cry out because
of your king whom you have chosen for
yourselves but the Lord will not answer
you in that day but the people refused
to listen to the voice of Samuel they
said no but we are determined to have a
king over us so that we also may be like
other nations and that our King may
govern us and go out before us and fight
our battles this is the word of God for
the people of God let us pray most
gracious God I am so grateful for the
gift of salvation but I'm still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
when I was a teenager around 14 years
old I saw some guys on the corner and
they just look really really cool they
had these hats they were called kengo's
twisted to the side
they had one pants leg rolled up I
didn't know what it meant but I just
know it look really really cool and then
they had a handkerchief a long
handkerchief hanging out of their back
pocket and I couldn't wait I was going
to get in my brother's room
and and take his Kengo hat and put it to
the side and roll my pants leg up and
put me a long handkerchief and I was
gonna be like those guys so I ran home
and everything was working just as
planned and as I was rolling my pants
leg up my mother looked into the room
and this is all she said I wish you
would that changed everything I just
rolled my pants leg back down I never
looked up I took the cane go off I took
the the little handkerchief out of my
pocket and said mama I just want to go
back outside and play if that's all
right with you and she said go but have
you ever wanted to be like anybody else
was it just me but what do we do that
we give up our uniqueness your
uniqueness is your magic
Ryon Buckingham said that you can't
blend in when you've been born to stand
out you're unique
another one said it like this he says
being unique is better than being
perfect and another says I'm unique I'm
special because I'm me you're unique
Malcolm Muggeridge said this he was a
British journalist any happening great
or small is a parable in which God
speaks to us in the art of life is to
get the message I'm gonna say it again
any happening great or small is a
parable by which God speaks to us and
the art of life is to get the message
that's why we're here
we want to get them
that's why God has sent me to help us to
get the message that's why I have folks
around me to help me to get the message
and that's what you are to do for others
is to help others get the message I want
to challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought do you know what you're
asking do you know what you're asking
the background of this text the nation
of Israel did not have an earthly King
and for many years they were under the
guidance of God and men like Samuel was
God's prophet who did God's bidding and
would speak to the people and would
govern their lives but now the nation of
Israel they want to be like other
nations not set apart for God's choosing
but they want to be like other nations
give us a king they said I just wonder
even
read this text what was happening to
them I sometimes wonder what is
happening to us in our country in the
world that that we live in this nation
was founded on Christian principles and
yet it seems like something else is
going on because we don't want to follow
them we want to do our own thing we want
to do it our own way it's almost like
God is in the way and maybe we're not
saying it with our mouths but we're
saying it with our actions this is my
life and I'll do what I want to do I
think one of the things that's happening
to us is called moral relevant ISM and
what that means is that it's a view of
ethical standards morality and positions
of right or wrong but they're culturally
based the cultural sort of teaches us
what's right and wrong we no longer
follow the ways of God God is no longer
the standard but moral relativism says
it like this Laura if you think it's
right than it's right for you Bobbie if
you don't think it's you think it's
wrong then it's wrong for you there are
no absolute truths dr. King put it like
this when he talked about moral
relativism Tisza I can't even say it
right now he says everybody is doing it
so it must be alright that's what this
is and that's what we have been reduced
to what's happened to us we were a
nation founded on Christian principles
and it seems like everything
gets watered-down are you with me this
morning what's happening to us and I can
tell you let me just give you an example
when I think of Christmas I love
Christmas holiday is one of my favorite
but I wonder sometimes do we look at
Christmas and and think about what God
has done for us and sending Jesus that
he would be the one who takes away the
sins of the world and that salvation
would be ours or does Christmas feel
more like what am I gonna get and what
am I gonna give am I gonna get that
electronic thing am I gonna get the new
car whatever it is but it's less about
Jesus is the reason for the season
anybody know what I'm talking about it
seems like whatever the world is doing
it we're running so close to it my
grandmama used to say it like that you
can go to places that people in the
world go you can do the things that the
people in the world do you can even talk
like the people in the world but you
won't have real power in your life she's
talking about spiritual power do you
understand what she's saying what's
happened to us the Hebrews use a a word
called breathe and it means covenant
we've been a covenant people set aside
for God's choosing what happened to us
go back and look at it when you look at
Abraham we have the Abrahamic covenant
or we talk about Noah that's the no
attak covenant or we talk about Moses is
the Mosaic Covenant we are covenant
people covenant is the solemn binding
arrangement between God and humanity
what's happened to us something has
changed it's almost like we're left to
us
with all that hardly not into their own
understanding but in all thy ways
acknowledge him and he shall direct our
paths but let me get back to the story
the text that was read in your hearing
says that Samuel had a long career of
being God's representative for the
people of God but Samuel was getting old
and therefore he appointed his sons to
help judge and govern the people but
just like in the text that we read last
week with Eli and his sons they were
wayward sons I mean the scripture is
quite clear says that they took bribes
that they perverse justice they were
doing all manner of evil and now the
elders of Israel want to reject them but
what's interesting is they say Samuel
you're getting old your children don't
follow the ways of God and therefore we
don't want to follow them which is good
but then they say we want a king give us
a king like other nations we want to be
like other nations and I don't know
about you but I was reading the text
this past week and I said really
you had God governing you and now you
want man to govern you really
and I imagined that that's what Sam you
said really and so Samuel did a great
thing it says the next thing that he did
was he prayed I like his style let me go
have a talk with the Lord get some
direction where is God leading on this
matter and that's what we ought to do as
the body of Christ that we are to pray
and when we pray we ought to be not like
those who pray to be seen but when we
pray we're to be joyful and hope a tient
in affliction faithful in our prayers
and when we pray we should pray for all
occasions and at all times
the scripture says do not be anxious
about anything but by everything through
supplication in prayer devote yourselves
to prayer being watchful and thankful
pray continuously we are urged to pray
and prayer is an act of obedience and so
he prays and he talks to the Lord and I
have to use my imagination I wasn't
there with Samuel but I imagine Samuel
says god I can't believe this but I got
to tell you what's really going on as if
God doesn't know right but he says Lord
they are rejecting me they don't want me
around anymore
and God speaks and he says no Samuel
they're not rejecting you they're
rejecting me as they did from the
beginning when I brought them out of the
land of Egypt and how they would abandon
me and turn to other gods they want a
king do they know what they're asking
maybe they have no clue but let me tell
you what that's going to look like all
the freedom that they have they will no
longer have that freedom the best land
you'll have to give that to the king I'm
just saying you see one of the things I
love about this conversation between
Samuel and God is that God's a good God
God is a loving God and he's basically
saying if this is what my people are
choosing then they need all of the
information so they can make an informed
decision you're gonna have to give up
your sons and daughters to drive his
chariot and then he's gonna need cooks
and bakers and people to clean his house
he's gonna need subjects so do you know
what you're asking and then God says
warn them because they will have to live
out their consequence how many of you
know there's consequences for our
decisions and I imagine Samuel goes back
to the elders and he just wants to get
their attention and he's hoping to still
plead with them and he tells them all
that God has said to him and they say no
we want a king to rule over us like
other kingdoms what's interesting is why
didn't they ask that samuel would just
take his sons out of position of
authority but I suspect something else
was going on and they use these boys to
get what they want
they wanted to be like other nations
that would come forth with pomp and
circumstances and all that went with a
king in other words God was not good
enough God was not enough for them
and Samuel shares what God has said
and Samuel warns them you see isn't it
interesting that God has done all these
things and now all of a sudden they
treat God as though God is not relevant
I'm so grateful today that the Word of
God is relevant for every stage in every
age I don't care what your age is I
don't care if you 2 years old
50 years old or even older the Word of
God is for every one of us amen and the
Word of God is relevant sometimes I look
at TV Vangelis and it's interesting that
some of the older men trying to be
relevant on TV and they're not really
physically fit and they got a little
bigger I'm trying to be nice and they've
got on jeans and just a t-shirt and they
want to preach the Word of
that way because they want to be
relevant let me just say it this way the
Word of God is relevant by itself amen
and it doesn't matter if I have on a tie
or a turtleneck the Word of God does not
change the Word of God is relevant all
by itself are you with me this morning
and I don't mind people saying relevant
but don't try to change the Word of God
let the Word of God do what the Word of
God is going to do and I pray every time
that I preached that the Word of God
will go forth and will not come back
void but will accomplish everything that
it's set out to do
the Word of God is for every age at
every stage and for every circumstance
but I could imagine Samuel
feeling somewhat rejected has anybody
ever been rejected anybody ever been
rejected on a daily basis I'm just
teasing they're just easy but could you
imagine this conversation with Samuel
and God and you can hear that God is
rejected by the people that they want a
man to be king of over them and no
longer God but the beauty about God is
that he doesn't force us to serve Him
God wants a relationship with us out of
love that we do it because we love them
we do it because we enjoy doing it it's
just like reading the word when you
first start reading the Word of God it
seems a little difficult you may not
understand it but all of a sudden you
start reading it and you begin to
delight in it anybody know what I'm
talking about
and so
somehow the Word of God begins to fill
your life with a calm and with peace and
with true joy so I know that some of you
are saying so what's the radical
solution to relevant ism to us wanting
to do things our own way
what's the radical solution I believe
the radical solution is surrender to
surrender our lives to God I mean all of
our lives it's like we invite God in but
we invite God into the livering of our
house you know the living room we kind
of keep a little tidy anybody know what
I'm talking about but we won't let God
into the basement will we no we don't
want God to go down into the basement
don't go into our attic look we don't
want you up in the attic we just stay in
the liver and we'll bring you a cool
drink god you could just sit right here
but God wants to transform our lives and
the more we can surrender to him the
more God can do for us I don't know
about you but I tried living on my own I
tried doing it my own way anybody else I
made a mess of it
and some of you are the same way that
you've tried to do it on your own and
you you made a mess of it but we need to
surrender to God surrender is a military
term it's a battle term it implies
giving up all the rights to the
Conqueror and it's the same way it is in
the spiritual that we surrender at all
so God
because we love them and we trust them
and then God can properly lead us God
has a plan for your life
some of you say well I don't know what
that is but here's what I tell people
who say I don't know what my purpose is
be faithful right where you are be
faithful to what the word says until God
tells you something different are you
with me there's enough scripture to keep
us busy if you say you don't know what
your purpose is our purpose is to be
faithful to the one who created us amen
is to live out that uniqueness that he
has given us I say surrender surrender
your mind your heart in your soul to the
God who loves us would you take the hand
of the person next to you Isaac would
you come and lead us in the word of
Prayer this is that time
well maybe you might say Lord I haven't
done all the things that I needed to do
and I want to get just a little closer
to you this is that time where you say
maybe something in the sermon resonated
with me Lord how do I give that to you
this is that time where you give it all
to God
most Heavenly Father we think you on
today Lord that you are our king of
kings and Lord of lords and father help
us to surrender our will Lord unto your
will help us Oh Heavenly Father that we
do not want what our neighbor has Lord
that we do not try to keep up with the
Joneses but God we are in our own
process of where you have us right now
in whatever state that we're in we have
learned to be content right where we are
and we know that all things work
together for our good for God we know
that you are in the midst of everything
that happens in our lives for father
help us so Heavenly Father for you said
that you know the plan that you have for
us plans of good and not of evil let us
not be anxious for anything Lord but we
wait upon the Lord help our spirit not
to be anxious lord help us not to step
out where you have not told us to step
out help us Lord to be patient and
surrender unto you for God we thank you
for that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples to pray when he said our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom and the power and
the glory forever amen
our second scripture reading this
morning is from the book of Samuel first
samuel chapter 3 verses 1 through 20 now
the boy samuel was ministering to the
Lord under Eli the word of the Lord was
rare in those days visions were not
widespread at that time Eli whose
eyesight had begun to grow dim so that
he could not see was lying down in his
room the lamp of God had not yet gone
out and samuel was lying down in the
Temple of the Lord where the Ark of God
was then the Lord called Samuel Samuel
and he said Here I am and ran to Eli and
said Here I am for you called me but he
said I did not call lie down again so he
went and lay down the Lord called again
Samuel Samuel got up and went to Eli and
said Here I am for you called me but he
said I did not call my son lie down
again now Samuel did not yet know the
Lord and the word of the Lord had not
yet been revealed to him the Lord called
Samuel again a third time and he got up
and went to Eli and said Here I am for
you called me then Eli proceeded that
the Lord was calling the boy
therefore Eli said to Samuel go lie down
and if he calls you you shall say speak
Lord for your servant is listening so
Samuel went and laid down in his place
now the Lord came and stood there
calling as before Samuel Samuel and
Samuel said speak
but your servant is listening then the
Lord said to Samuel see I am about to do
something in Israel that will make both
ears of anyone who hears of it tingle on
that day I will fulfil against Eli all
that I have spoken concerning his house
from beginning to end for I have told
him that I am about to punish his house
forever for the iniquity that he knew
because his sons were blaspheming God
and he did not restrain them therefore I
swear to the house of Eli that the
iniquity of Eli's house shall be excited
by sacrifice or offering forever samuel
lay there until morning then he opened
the doors of the house of the lord
samuel was afraid to tell the vision to
Eli but Eli called Sam you and said
Samuel my son he said Here I am Eli said
what was it that he told you do not hide
it from me
may God do so to you and more also if
you hide anything from me
of all that he told you so Samuel told
him everything and he had nothing from
him then he said it is the Lord let him
do what seems good to him as Samuel grew
up the Lord was with him and let none of
his words fall to the ground and all
Israel from Dan to Beersheba knew that
Samuel was a trustworthy prophet of the
Lord this is the word of God for the
people of God let us pray most gracious
God I am a sinner saved by your grace
and I'm grateful but I am still a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to
do your work and to do your will hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you were not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
there's an article entitled obedience
isn't easy by Irene Barnes and she
starts out this way she says life was
good and easy maybe too easy I had
everything that I could possibly want my
dear Heavenly Father my husband my
family and friends but God had plans for
me to take me out of my comfort zone and
to to a place I had never thought
possible a place I on my own could not
imagine or put myself into God made me
part of his story but this isn't the
whole story
it's really not about me it's about God
it's about God's love his promises to us
it's a story about utter obedience each
morning I look to God for forgiveness
submit my day into its care and ask for
clarity of his will for my life and
while waiting in silence for God to
speak to me one morning I felt his
presence come over me in such a strong
way and I received a clear message I
receive divine understanding of what God
wanted of me he impressed it upon my
heart to donate a kidney to my husband
Wayne's estranged brother he
then on the kidney transplant lists for
two years
Stevens kidney no longer function
appropriately to sustain his life and as
a result he had to endure dialysis 15
hours a day to keep his mortal body
alive but why me I questioned how could
God expect me to give a vital organ to
someone I really didn't even know I
could never be a match I wasn't even a
relative to Steven besides I was too
weak for the task and I could never go
through with this I was sure that this
was just a dream
made up in my mind it was so easy to
justify walking away from this thought
it couldn't have been God speaking I
thought I ignored the message but for
just a brief moment and then I went back
into prayer and I asked God for his
confirmation and maybe some of us pray
like she prayed God if this is really
really you and this is something you
really really want me to do I really
really need you to show me without a
doubt she says but as I look back on
what transpired I knew that it wasn't
something that I could have done on my
own my selfish thoughts my selfish fears
and worries would have prevented me from
going ahead with the surgery it would
have been just easy to come up with some
great excuse to quit as I encountered
each hurdle through this ordeal but I
couldn't and I didn't this was something
God wanted of me and I had to do it at
all cost
armed with the confidence from within I
picked up the phone and I spoke to
Steven and to his wife Linda
I'll let Stephen know that I was willing
to donate my kidney but I had to explain
to him why I was doing it I needed him
to know that I was donating my kidney
because of God alone for three months I
endured rigorous testing and I received
positive results all the way through
two weeks later I found myself in
Toronto preparing for surgery
in meeting with Stephen and Linda for
the first time ever here I was far from
the comforts of home Wayne and I had
took off from work to go to do this
surgery not knowing how long we would be
there
there were expenses of hotels loss of
income airfare and I could go on but the
surgery was scheduled and the transplant
was a success it was a great victory for
Stephen which I was thrilled about but
for me it was not easy there were
complications and a lot of plane a lot
of pain let me just say it this way
obedience is not easy my recovery was
difficult and I kept my eyes on the Lord
as he revealed his promises to me come
unto me all who are weary and a burdened
and I will give you rest take my yoke
upon you and learn of me for I am gentle
and humble of heart and you will find
rest for your souls Matthew 11 verse 28
what an amazing sense of peace I felt
there are no possible words that to
describe it
God spoke words that were clear and
calming enough to release me from my
fears he says you are not alone you are
never alone I am with you and I am in
control of your life
during this moment with God he revealed
to me that I was to write this story for
him and he wanted me to put it down on
paper all that I went through and
everything I felt he made it clear to me
that the story was to be a to be about
obedience and doing God's will I see now
that God was molding me changing me
he was strengthening my character
ordering me to be strong strong for him
and in him and then James 1 verse 2
through 4 reaffirmed this truth to me
considerate pure joy my brothers and
sisters whenever you face trials of any
kind because you know the testing of
your faith develops perseverance
perseverance must finish its work so
that you may be mature and complete and
lacking nothing my friends that's what I
want for you today I want you to know
today that obedience is not easy but
it's required I want you to pray today
for perseverance to finish the work that
God is put in your heart and I pray for
each of us that we might be mature and
complete and not lacking anything this
is a great word this morning the
scripture comes to us and it says and
the lamp of God had not yet gone out the
lamp of God we think about the
candlesticks in the tabernacle they will
lit every evening and then put out in
the morning but the lamp can also be
understood as the lamp of prophecy
which scripture said it says visions was
rare in those days and it seemed that it
would be extinguished in Eli yet it
began in Samuel let me just say this to
you and fatica Lee when a man or a woman
of God dies nothing of God dies when we
as men and women choose not to do God's
will when we choose not to do gods
bidding God will find somebody else amen
so doing God's will is our opportunity
to please the father scripture says
Eli's eyes were dim and the spirit of
prophecy came to Samuel so the Jews
would express it like this before one
Sun was set another rose in other words
before the Son of Elijah said the son of
Elisha rose and before the son of Moses
was set the Sun of Joshua arose and
before the son of Eli said the son of
Samuel rose are you with me this morning
I've got two people over here with me
are you with me this morning the story
that was read and you're hearing is a
beautiful story but it's three
dimensional it's hard to just talk about
the call of Samuel and not talk about
what happened before Samuel came along
and not to talk about how God was going
to use Samuel so it's three dimensional
we need to talk about Hanna and Eli we
need to talk about Eli and his sons
hophni and feena's and lastly we moved
to the call of Samuel the first portion
of this message is about Hanna who
wanted a child really bad but she was
barren in those days and even in today
having children is the crown of a
marriage Joshua's the crown of my
marriage but in this day more so
everybody else is out celebrating the
festival but Hanna is in the temple
weeping before God pleading with God to
bless her and Eli the priest and prophet
he noticed that her mouth was moving but
he couldn't hear any word so he assumed
that she was drunk and he says woman
what is it that you want are you drunk
and she says no I just want God to bless
me let me digress for a moment how many
of you just want God to bless you I
would imagine that's why you're here
this morning because you want God to
bless you in my friends God blessed her
eli prayed with her and hannah had a son
and she named her son Samuel and his
name means heard by God God heard her
prayer but let me tell you what she did
that was so amazing she was so grateful
that the Lord had blessed her and that
God had opened her womb so that she
would have this child and she named him
Samuel but she offered him back into the
service of the Lord when he was old
enough she took him to the temple and
she told the priest Eli he is to grow up
in the church I've offered him back to
the Lord I'll come and check on him but
this is where he's to grow up he's to do
God's work he's to do gods bidding so
often when we send our children to
school we say that prayer over
we some who have left home and have gone
to college we say that prayer over them
and we just trust God for it and this is
what Hannah did but it started right
there let me just say to you that Samuel
was a miraculous birth and so now we we
look at the story of Samuel and you've
heard it read in your hearing this
morning it was in the middle of the
night and Samuel heard his name called
he goes to where Eli the priest is and
he says sir did you call me no I didn't
call you go back and lie down and this
happened three times what's interesting
is that Samuel is growing up in the
church but it says but he did not know
the Lord he didn't know God's voice for
himself but yet God was coming to him
was interesting is that Eli the Prophet
didn't understand what was going on
initially and the third time Eli says to
him when you hear it again say Lord
speak for your servant is listening what
a great word for us today
maybe that ought to be our prayer as
well speak Lord for your servant is
listening my friends this story today is
about obedience God spoke Sam you
listened and was ready to do everything
that God had shared with him but my
first point that I want us to get in our
spirits is that we who are older
Christians we must do everything in our
power to help our young people along
their spirits
Jurnee we have to teach them about the
things of god so that they would come to
love the things of God love to read and
study the Word of God come to worship
and and when I was a little boy I was
just 8 and 10 I was ushering in the
church one of the things I so I'm so
grateful for is that my mother was on
drugs she drug us to church every Sunday
and today I have a relationship because
of that my grandmother prayed over me
and we would have to sit and read
scripture to my grandmother sometimes I
thought it was a timeout I'm just saying
but as all the Christians that's what we
ought to do with our younger people I
was so grateful for confirmation because
I saw our mentors pouring in to our
younger people and I was like yes
because we wanted to make sure that they
understand who God is and that he has a
plan and a purpose for their life let me
give you the backdrop of what's going on
in this Stax what's going on is that Eli
sons hophni and Finas they were supposed
to be spiritual leaders in the church
but because of their moral decline and
the spiritual decline in their lives
there was a moral decline in a spiritual
decline in the life of Israel was almost
like follow the leader they're not
following what God wants them to do so
the people of Israel is not following
what God wanted them to do and we see
this is so bad it's so sad because in
this particular
texe one of the things that really
offended God was they would have meat
offerings and people would bring Mead to
the temple and it was supposed to be a
sacrifice to God and one of the things
that God had told the priests was that
when they would bring this meat and they
would boil the meat down if the priest
would stick their fork in and I would
imagine it's not like a little fork a
dinner fork like we have but they would
bring up the meat and whatever was on
the fork they could keep it for
themselves but hophni and Finas wanted
more you see what God was giving was
enough but they wanted more they wanted
a bigger portion they wanted the best
portion they wanted it all and they took
it for themselves and the scripture says
and God was offended let me just say
this to us too often we think about big
sins and little sins we think that if I
take a pen from the job and a pencil
from the job that's a little sin but if
I live that's a big sin we think that if
we just take a couple of notebooks or
something from the job it's just a small
sin but if we murder that's a big sin
let me just say to you God sees sin is
sin to God there are no big sins and no
little sins sin is sin amen but God is
offended at what they had done and my
friends hophni and Finas decided we're
not doing it God's Way we're gonna do it
our own way and that's what they did let
me digress again
for just a moment that's what's
happening in our world today
we don't want to do it God's Way we want
to do whatever pleases us that's we want
to that's what we want to do but God is
the standard
and that's what they miss let me just
say it again when a man or woman of God
dies nothing of God dies when we choose
not to do God's will not to do gods
bidding God will find someone else amen
and so this is what happened in this
scripture but not only this but God had
spoken to Eli the priest and told him
what his sons were doing and he chose to
do nothing my friends when God speaks to
us so important that we take it serious
and that we listen scripture says Allah
took no action and first samuel chapter
2 verse 30 it says it this way therefore
the Lord the God of Israel declares I
promise that your house and your
father's house would minister before me
forever but now the Lord declares far be
it from me those who honor me I will
honor but those who despise me will be
disdained god is basically saying I'm
going to remove my favor from your house
Isaac what I'm so glad about as being a
pastor I get to do this God allows me to
do this I asked the preacher one time
who was who would serve for forty four
years I said you know every time I have
to preach I I get nervous he says when
you stop being nervous it's time to get
out of the business because then you
don't realize that you're standing on
holy ground
my friends
in this text the people was doing
anything that they thought was right in
their own eyesight and they were living
in a dark time but God miraculously
brought this child Samuel to do his
bidding what I love about the scripture
is it says but the lamp of God had not
gone out thanks be to God
Samuel hears the voice calling three
times and he arises he goes to Samuel E
as if there's anything that he can do
for him and what I love about this he
says speak for your servant is listening
let me quickly round this up of what was
said God relays the misery that will
plague the house of Eli in the morning
Samuel hesitates the towel Eli of this
news who would want to tell somebody hey
God told me your whole family's going to
be dead and you're gonna all be who
wants to tell that news so of course he
hesitated to tell it but after some
prompting Samuel spills all the beans
and notice
Eli simply says God's will is not for
anyone to change man I mean you know
what's gonna happen and you have nerves
of steel I mean I'd be on my knees god
I'm so sorry I messed up but that's how
he did it and after Samuel was decreed
as the the Prophet he began to open the
doors of the church but this text is
about obedience but before I talk about
that let me tell you what disobedience
is disobedience is an
act of rebellion towards God
disobedience is sinful disobedience is a
form of idolatry disobedience is in
contrast to the Word of God and
disobedience is based on looking good to
other people rather than to God amen we
care more about what people say than
what God says
still today our human attempts to to
look good and serving God we can do
things for charity because we want to
look good in front of people we can give
money we can pray in public and all of
that's good but nothing is better than
doing the will of God the Bible has much
to say about obedience in fact obedience
is the central part of our Christian
faith Jesus himself was our greatest
example he was obedient even unto death
death on the cross and for Christians
the act of taking up our cross and
follow in Christ
it's about obedience the Bible says that
we show our love for Jesus by obeying
him in all things if you love me you
will keep my Commandments
it's about obedience a Christian who was
not obeying Christ commands can rightly
be asked by the Lord why do you call me
Lord Lord but you won't do what I asked
you to do obedience is defined as
dutiful or submissive compliance to the
commands of one in authority dutiful
means it's our obligation to obey God
just as Jesus did submissive indicates
that we are to yield our will to the
will of God it's not just about duty
we ought to obey Him because we love
them we understand that the spirit of
obedience is important but it's also an
act of love I think that if we love God
we will obey Him we won't be perfect in
our obedience but our desire is to
submit to the Lord and to display his
good works of grace in our lives
when we love God and obey Him it's only
then that we could naturally love one
another my friends you are light and
salt in this dark world you are the
light of the world you are salt in this
dark and tasteless world trust and obey
for there's no other way to be happy in
Jesus than to trust and obey would you
bow your head and a word of Prayer
Isaac would you close us in the word of
prayer most gracious God we thank you 1
this morning God we just thank you that
you help us Lord that our light has not
gone out and our light has not gone dim
father we just thank you that you
continue to help us to be obedient to
your word sometimes it may be hard and
sometimes it may be crazy or seem crazy
to us but obedience is better than
sacrifice the things that you asked us
to do lord help us to be obedient and
some of you God has been telling you to
do something for years and you're saying
that that's not God or you're waiting
for the right time well I tell you right
now the time is now there is no right
time did we try to do it in our own self
or think about it in our own mind the
time is now if God has been telling you
to do something please be obedient God
we just thank you
for your spirit to move Lord in every
life here father that we may humble
ourselves before you and carry out your
will and purpose in this earth was in
Christ's name we pray amen
just come forth that we might work
[Music]
and you may be seated
this morning is from the book of Acts
2nd chapter verses 1 through 21 when the
day of pentecost had come they were all
together in one place and suddenly from
heaven there came a sound like the rush
of a violent wind and it filled the
entire house where they were sitting
divided comes as a fire appeared among
them and a tongue rested on each of them
all of them were filled with the Holy
Spirit and began to speak in other
languages as the Spirit gave them
ability now there were devout Jews from
every nation under heaven living in
Jerusalem and at the sound the crowd
gathered and was bewildered because each
one heard them speaking in the native
language of each amazed and astonished
they asked are not all these who are
speaking Galileans and how is it that we
here each of us in our own native
language Parthians Medes Elamites and
residents of Mesopotamia Judea and
Cappadocia Pontus and Asia Phrygia and
Pamphylia Egypt and the parts of Libya
belonging to serum and visitors from
Rome both Jews and Priscilla Tights
Cretans and Arabs in our own languages
we hear them speaking about God's deeds
of power all were amazed and perplexed
saying to one another what does this
mean but others sneered and said they
are filled with new wine but Peter
standing with the eleven raised his
voice and addressed them
men of Judaea and all who live in
Jerusalem let this be known to you and
listen to what I say indeed these are
not drunk as you suppose for it is only
9 o'clock in the morning no this is what
was spoken through the Prophet Joel in
the last days it will be God declares
that I will pour out my spirit upon all
flesh and your sons and your daughters
shall prophesy and your young men shall
see visions and your old men shall dream
dreams even upon my slaves both men and
women in those days I will pour out my
spirit and they shall prophesy and I
will show portents in the heaven above
and signs on the earth below blood and
fire and smoke amidst the Sun shall be
turned into darkness and the moon to
blood before the coming of the Lord and
glorious day then everyone who calls on
the name of the Lord shall be saved
this is the word of God for the people
of God
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
let us pray well swishes God we thank
you on this morning God we just pray
that you touch each in every heart Lord
and prepare them for your word and Lord
we thank you that your word would go
forth and accomplish all that you will
and desire for it to accomplish and
father we just pray that your will be
done for this in Christ's name that we
pray and all of God's people said amen
Reverend Joel Osteen says the greatest
gift that we can give someone is the
gift of our time our love our attention
our care and concern and I'll share that
with you because and Jesus sending the
Holy Spirit he did so so that we might
feel his love his attention his care and
concern for each of us on a daily basis
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought the gift of the
Holy Spirit the gift of the Holy Spirit
reven Melvin Newlin says that when we
celebrate the birth of Jesus the whole
world pauses and it comes out to
celebrate Christmas with us when we
celebrate his resurrection most of the
world recognizes Easter as a special day
and they come out to celebrate with us
but today is Pentecost and hardly anyone
recognizes it yet it's a significant day
in the life of the church because
Pentecost is the birthday of the church
and God has given us a wonderful
opportunity to participate in it by
receiving the gift of the Holy Spirit
the church ought to say amen
and it's in the second chapter of the
book of Acts that was read in your
hearing but in the first chapter Jesus
tells his disciples on the Mount of
Olives that they had to be his witnesses
and Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and
to all the ends of the earth but first
they must wait until they receive power
from on high
then he ascends out of their sight into
heaven so they go to Jerusalem to wait
and to pray we don't like waiting do we
we want it like that that didn't sound
good like that
we want it like yesterday but when we
wait in the spirit is a little different
than waiting in the natural because the
Spirit is already behind the scenes at
work in our lives
a Tosa said that the Great Commission
which is to make disciples of Jesus
Christ he said is not the first call to
the church but he reminds us to go to
Jerusalem and to tarry until we are
endowed with power from on high
why is this important
I love cherries children's message
because she always gives me another
launching pad but it's important because
God would not send us out
unprepared he wanted to make sure that
we had everything that we need in order
to accomplish the work of God Jesus
desired that his disciples do the work
of God but not until they had received
power
from on high so today is Pentecost
Pentecost is significant both in the New
Testament and in the Old Testament now
I'll say this because you know I hear
people say things like well I'm so glad
you're preaching from the New Testament
cuz I don't like the Old Testament let
me just say this to you it's one story
the same God in the Old Testament it's
the same God in the New Testament are
you with me it's one story now you
wouldn't watch an episode of Law & Order
and now it's on season seven that you
would think that it's a different show
right it's the same show but a different
season a different episode so when we
look at the old in the New Testament
let's not see it as two stories but one
story just different episodes are you
with me I want you to fall in love with
the Old Testament just like you have
fallen in love with the New Testament I
have two master teachers over here and
they're looking at me making sure I say
it like no but we have some great
teachers in this church and I was
looking at Barbie vests and and Laura in
particular they are master teachers they
spend the time with the Lord and you can
ask them questions and from their hearts
they can share with you so I say that
joking around but still in all
seriousness because I respect their
ability to study the Word of God and
they love the Word of God anybody ever
study under them raise your hand am i
right about it amen
somebody said least he knows what he's
talking about when he talks about them
Pentecost is significant both in the Old
Testament and the new it's known as the
feast of weeks in the Old Testament
there was three sort of holidays if you
will or three feast
it was Passover the feast of weeks and
the feast of tabernacle and it required
that all of the able-bodied Jewish males
and their families traveled to Jerusalem
to attend the feasts but also to offer
their sacrifice to thank God for all
that God had done for them how many of
you grateful for for the Lord all that
the Lord has done for you
so Pentecost means fifty exactly fifty
days but as we move towards the New
Testament somebody say is still one
story
I'm glad you believe just like I believe
that it's one story just a different
episode so as I talk about the New
Testament are talking about Pentecost
Pentecost is also reminiscent of the
Last Supper now I know it's gonna take a
mental leap but stay with me for a
minute when we think of the Last Supper
we think of the disciples being in one
room in the upper room and the disciples
get to witness the end of Jesus earthly
ministry as he asked them to remember
him after his death and upon his return
and that Pentecost the disciples witness
the birth of the New Testament church
and the coming of the Holy Spirit to
indwell all believers remember what I
said just two weeks ago in the Old
Testament the Holy Spirit will come upon
maybe a prophet to do gods bidding but
the Holy Spirit didn't live there it
would come upon them and so now
this is different that every believer
would be endowed with the power from on
high
Pentecost is so important for us but
remember what I said is all a part of
one story in the New Testament it talks
about the fire of tongues but the
description of fire is not a new story
it's an old story whenever we talk about
fire it's also in the Old Testament look
at Exodus 3 verse 2 and the angel of the
Lord appeared to him in a flame out of
the midst of a bush he looked in the
held and the bush was burning yet it was
not consumed fire is not new
we know fire Malachi 3 verse 2 says it
like this but who can endure the day of
the coming and who can stand when he
appears for he is like a refiners fire
and like a fuller soul we know fire in
Exodus 13 verse 21 and the Lord went
before them by day in the pillar of a
cloud to lead them along the way and by
night and a pillar foul in a pillar of
fire to give them light that they might
travel by day or by night likewise in
the New Testament Hebrews chapter 12
verse 29 for God is a consuming fire the
Old Testament in the New Testament
same God one story different episodes
are you with me I'm gonna keep saying it
because I want you to get that down in
your spirit and I want you to fall in
love with reading the old and the New
Testament amen
but another aspect of the day of
Pentecost is this miraculous speaking
and foreign tongues which enable people
of various languages and grooves to
understand the message in their own
language it goes like this they were
staying in Jerusalem where god-fearing
Jews of every nation under heaven had
come and when they heard this sound a
great crowd came together but they came
together in bewilderment because each
one heard them speaking in their own
language and they understood the message
utterly amazed they asked are not these
men who were speaking Galileans then how
is it that each of us hear them in her
own native tongue Parthians Medes
Elamites residents of Mesopotamia Judea
kappa d kappa da jie Pontius an Asia
Phrygia Pamphylia and Egypt's and parts
of Libya near serene visitors from Rome
both Jews and converts to Judaism
Cretans and Arabs we hear them declaring
the wonders of God in our own tongues
and then they say amazed and perplexed
they ask one another
what does this mean this is the question
that we should ask every Sunday when we
come to hear the message no matter who
is preaching what does this mean and
then we should make it personal
what does this mean for me and then I
encourage you to go home
continue to read the word because the
Spirit of God can continue to move and
continue to speak to your mind in your
heart but they ask what does this mean
and it's an interesting that sometimes
things happen in life and we can't make
sense of it but there's always somebody
who's got an explanation are you with me
I don't know what it means but maybe
they're drunk they're drunk on wine
rather than saying I don't know they
come up with something amen anybody know
what I'm talking about
you see they're drunk with wine and what
I like about this text what gets me so
excited is because when we look at the
life of Peter we see that Peter has
messed up Peter is not going to wait
he's he's always in trouble remember
Jesus says Satan get behind me when he
was talking to Peter and remember Peter
denied Jesus not once not twice but
three times and then we know that when
Jesus was on the cross
the disciples fled they went in hiding
they were afraid but now Peters
emboldened by the power of the Holy
Spirit listen my friends you'll hear his
confidence you'll hear his boldness
Peter's not worried about what's going
to happen to him he just wants to do the
work and the will of God oh I wish we
could catch onto his spirit and and make
that our primary goal just to do the
work of God where we didn't care what
people said well we didn't care what
people thought we didn't care how people
looked at us that we would just want to
do the work of God listen to Peter
he said fellow Jews and all of you who
live in Jerusalem let me explain this to
you listen carefully to what I have to
say these men are not drunk as you
for this was spoken to you by the
Prophet Joel
in other words Peter saying you know the
scripture you know the word this was
spoken to you by the Prophet Joel and
beginning with those words he preached
to them about Jesus he told them this
Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredit by
God to you by miracles wonders and signs
while God did among you and through him
as you yourselves know and you with the
help of wicked men put him to death by
nailing him to the cross
but God raised him from the dead
Peter's not done he says listen up
therefore let all of Israel be assured
of this God has made this Jesus whom you
crucified both Lord and Messiah and
here's the part I love when the people
heard this they were cut to the heart
and they said to Peter and to the other
disciples brothers what shall we do this
is the other question that we ought to
ask ourselves every time we hear the
message what does it mean what does it
mean for me and then what shall I do
how shall I respond to God's test
what is great about pentecost in
addition to the bold and incisive
preaching of Peter the effect was this
and the result was this Peter said
repent and be baptized changed from your
ways repentance means turning from the
direction that you're going and turning
towards God Peter did this with boldness
turn from the way that you're going turn
towards God be baptized in other words
live for him now
you were you were not living for him you
were doing your own thing that's okay
but live for him now make it right what
I love about this is that the result is
that 3000 gave their lives to the Lord
and was added to the fellowship and the
scripture says by the breaking of bread
and prayers and they went out to do
signs and wonders and everyone who had a
need their needs were meant you see they
had a change of heart that's what I hope
for us that when the Spirit of God falls
upon us that it changes our hearts and
it gives us a desire to live for him two
weeks ago I said that the Holy Spirit
comes it comes upon our lives but it it
tries to blast out what is not of God
sort of breaks us down but it builds us
up
so that we can be more in his name Amen
so that we can accomplish all that God
has set us out to do question is do we
have a conscience will we let them do it
but what I love about the power of
Pentecost the Holy Spirit has come upon
our lives to do a great work in us
Pentecost is Jesus words coming to life
listen to this scripture you got to get
this I want you to write it down if you
will John 14 verse 12 very truly I tell
you whoever believes and me will do the
works I've been doing and they will do
even greater works than these because
I'm going to the Father did you hear
that
that we will do greater works than Jesus
that's what he said I'm gonna read it
for you again I read it to Isaac this
morning I said Isaac this word is so
powerful it's like it's alive it's
electric very truly I tell you whoever
believes in me will do the works that
I've been doing and they will do even
greater things than these because I'm
going to the father Pentecost means that
we can live a life of excellence and
self-control listen to Matthew 5 verse
16 in the same way let your light shine
before others that they might see your
good deeds and then glorify your father
in heaven in other words we ought to
live in such a way that people want what
we've got that they see the light in us
that they see the love of God in us and
say I want that that they see the joy
that we have not that we come to church
and look like we've sucked on a hundred
lemons before we've come to church
and we say praise the Lord with a frown
on our face maybe we ought to tell our
face that we that were joyful inside
tell our face so that our face can smile
maybe we would believe like David David
says even though I walk through the
valley of the shadow of death I will not
fear any evil for thou art with me thy
rod and thy staff they comfort me thou
prepares a table before me in the
presence of my enemies thou anointest my
head with all my cup overflows surely
goodness and mercy shall follow me all
the days of my life and I shall dwell in
the house of the Lord than ever after
we've received this gift of the Spirit
we should know who we are is what Peter
Gomes says the late great dr. Peter
Gomes he asked the question do you know
who you are he says this is who we are
we are formed by God nurtured by his
love preserved by his mercy mercy open
to his promises expectant of his future
you are the expression of divine hope
you are God's best and last chance for
this world he says I have no hands put
your hands down I have no voice but your
voice Isaac will you go out there and
speak for me will you do my bidding you
see the Holy Spirit is upon our lives
and the Bible is saying that we can be
even more jesus says you'll do even
greater things than I've done that we
can do more that's who we are
and we ought to say Amen Isaac I want
you to come in close us in a word of
Prayer let us pray Oh Heavenly Father we
thank you all today Lord for your word
we thank you for your holy spirit Lord
let us step out and do the works Lord
that you have called for us to do with
the help of your Holy Spirit and God we
thank you for every circumstance in the
situation that may arise that you will
lead us Lord and guide us father help us
to have more faith than what we have
father we thank you Lord and you say
that we only believe just believe if you
believe then God will do it if you just
have faith beside the mustard seed just
ask the Holy Spirit to help you and he
will guide you through whatever
circumstance the situation in your life
just ask him because he is our comforter
he left here he was here sit here by
Christ
[Music]
you may be seated
our scripture reading this morning is
from the book of Acts chapter 10 verses
44 through 48 while Peter was still
speaking the Holy Spirit fell upon all
who heard the word the circumcised
believers who had come with Peter was
astounded that the gift of the Holy
Spirit had been poured out even on the
Gentiles for they heard them speaking in
tongues and extolling God then Peter
said can any one withhold the water for
baptizing these people who have received
the Holy Spirit just as we have so he
ordered them to be baptized in the name
of Jesus Christ then they invited him to
stay for several days this is the word
of God for the people of God let us pray
most gracious Scott I'm a sinner saved
by your grace and I'm truly grateful but
I'm still a broken vessel but I know all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought the power of
the Holy Spirit the power of the Holy
Spirit I want to share this sermon with
you because I think we need to be
reminded of what's available to us when
we pray that because of the power of the
Holy
spirit there are many things that we can
do dr. Evans and Tony Evans in his
article he puts it this way he says
before Jesus ascension into heaven he
promised his followers that he would
send a helper who would be with them
forever Jesus instructed them to stay in
to n Jerusalem until they had received
the power of the Holy Spirit and then he
says the Holy Spirit's job is to empower
us as Christians to progress in our
spiritual lives but far too many
Christians find themselves on a
spiritual treadmill they're working up a
sweat with religious activities but they
remain in the same place spiritually I'm
gonna repeat that they're working up a
sweat with religious activities but they
remain in the same place spiritually are
you on a spiritual treadmill this
morning and then he closes with this if
your life seems to be powerless check
your connection with the Holy Spirit
dr. mice Michael Yosef in his article
the dynamic power of the Holy Spirit
says it like this when we speak of the
power of the Holy Spirit many people
even Christians misunderstand the
meaning of power he says I think they
misunderstand or they defined power by
the way that the world define power in
the world's view power conveys the
ability to control people events and
circumstances for our own advantage in
the world's view power brings
independence self-sufficiency with no
real need for God's help he says while
many people devote themselves to
achieving this great goal this type of
power could never truly satisfy the
heart in the soul it can never bring us
joy and peace that we're looking for in
describing the power of the Holy Spirit
the Bible paints a very different
picture it says it like this Luke 24
verse 29 I'm going to send you what my
father has promised but stay in the city
until you have been clothed with power
from on high
what power are we talking about we're
talking about the power of the Holy
Spirit and then in acts 1 verse 8 but
you will receive power when the Holy
Spirit comes on you and you will be my
witnesses in Jerusalem and all of Judea
and Samaria to all of the ends of the
earth that's power you see the world's
power is temporary always leaving us
wanting more but in this the power of
the Holy Spirit is not only with us but
it's in us the Apostle Paul puts it this
way in 2nd Corinthians chapter 12 verse
9 but he said to me my grace is
sufficient for you my power is made
perfect in your weakness therefore I
will boast all the more about weaknesses
so that Christ's power may rest on me
what power is he talking about
the power of the Holy Spirit we say
power but in the Greek the word is dine
animus which we get the Greek word
dynamite I mean the English word
dynamite in acts 1 verse 8
Jesus told his disciples before they
could go and evangelize the world they
must receive dynamesh the power of the
Holy Spirit in other words the Holy
Spirit possesses a dynamite power that
works within the mind and the heart of
every believer and it blasts out
anything that's unlike God the Holy
Spirit comes it works in our lives to
sort of break us down if you will but to
remake us into something more so when we
are faced with the circumstance we need
not think of ourselves as being
powerless but that this power that I'm
talking about is available to each and
every one of us scripture says I can do
all things did say some things did it
say I can do two things
it says somebody say it again all things
this is the power that's available to
you and I when we pray when we trust God
for it this is the power that's made
available to us
but you know what we got to do we got to
get out of the way we got to get out of
the way and allow the Holy Spirit to do
what the Holy Spirit wants to do have
you ever been in the way I've been in
the way my stubbornness has been in the
way sometimes because sometimes I want
to do it my way anybody else or is it
just me had a professor at seminary dr.
Carson Brisson who taught me Hebrew and
and Greek and he was just a phenomenal
teacher but it wasn't just the Hebrew or
the Greek that he would he would teach
us he would talk to us about life and I
mean just hold you spellbound but when
the class was over he would lead us in a
prayer and then he would lead us in the
Lord's Prayer and just as we ended the
prayer would open our eyes he would be
gone he wasn't there
and you look around the room and you say
where's dr. Brisson and one day I saw
him in the cafeteria and I couldn't wait
to go up to him and and ask him why does
he leave the class like that we we had
such a dynamic class and it was so
powerful and he says mr. parson I leave
the class to get out of God's way the
Holy Spirit is still moving moving it's
not about me it's about what God wants
to do in your life in the lives of those
other students so when I leave I'm not
trying to be rude I'm trying to get out
of God's way that's what we've got to do
sometimes we just gotta let go - amen
sometimes we're holding on to things and
God just says let it go and we can't
seem to let it go
money might be an example of not letting
go my friends what I want you to hear is
that we are merely conduits channels
through which God's power moves the Holy
Spirit empowers us to be witnesses of
God's love and to live in a way that
pleases God the Holy Spirit will teach
us how to do that the Holy Spirit will
help us to fully meet the demands of
this life the precious of this life the
Holy Spirit will help us to resist every
temptation that we might experience
here's what I want you to hear the power
of the Holy Spirit is the only power
sufficient to help us win spiritual
battles are you with me it's the only
power sufficient to help us to win
spiritual battles we've got to die out
of self when we look at this text that
was read in your hearing it's a text
that is part of a much larger story when
you look at acts 10 it tells of the
power of the Holy Spirit breaking down
the barriers between Jews and Gentiles
it begins with Cornelius a gent a
Gentile a devout man who love God and it
ends with this incredible announcement
to the church that God has poured his
spirit on us all I was sharing in the
first service it's it's always
interesting to me what was interesting
to me when I was in seminary there were
people who thought that women shouldn't
preach women shouldn't be preachers will
anybody who thinks that way I would love
to invite them for next week when
Laura's preaching because she's
I'm a preacher and she's awesome but
scripture says I will pour out my spirit
upon all flesh your sons and daughters
will prophesy who are we to tell God who
God can use amen
I will pour my spirit upon all flesh and
that's what I used to tell them in
seminary I don't know where you got that
from because it's not in the Word of God
and that's what I follow I followed the
Word of God
so you claiming to be a preacher what
are you reading are you ripping out that
page that I just read to you what I love
about that is because God poured out his
spirit upon all flesh to the Gentiles
you and I have the gift of salvation in
his ours for the asking
nothing that we've done to deserve it to
earn it to buy it it is a free gift
given to us because of the power of the
Holy Spirit the disciples will lead a
mission that will begin in Jerusalem and
we'll move to Judea and to Samaria and
to all the ends of the earth it'll move
to Richmond Virginia amen the power of
the Holy Spirit is available to each and
every one of us all we have to do is
believe and invite God to come into our
lives you know the difference between
the Old Testament and the New Testament
is that the spirit would come and it
would enable let's say like Moses to do
the work of God but it it didn't end
well him it wasn't on the inside it
would come and empower him to do a
particular work but today the Holy
Spirit lives inside of you and it lives
inside of me in the moment
that we asked to do this great work in
our lives and we invite him in God will
do it for us so that we can share the
gospel with others I came across this
great story the woman's name is Beth
Tatum she's a missionary in Costa Rica
she says for the past five years I've
served on a mission team in a local
woman's prison in Costa Rica these women
have been through a variety of tragedies
and have seen evil face to face many
want to make a change in life and are
determined to choose a better path
however living in an overcrowded
oppressed environment can harden
anyone's heart and seeing the true
transformation in the women almost
seemed impossible without the work of
the Holy Spirit when the women first
came to the group they had hardened
faces and their attitudes were full of
hate but as our team began to lead Bible
studies and begin to mentor them and to
teach them about the love of Christ you
can see a physical and a spiritual
transformation take place their faces
softened they began to smile and their
hearts began to express joy and peace
the woman discovered that they were not
defined by their past and that the Holy
Spirit would indeed guide them as they
forged on this new path of life they
learned how to accept responsibility for
their sins and to move forward as women
of Christ as new creatures in Christ you
see the power of the Holy Spirit is
undeniable indisputable
but it can become a visible tangible
manifestation of the power of God Carrie
Davison a missionary of liberius shares
this here in Liberia most of life is
lived outside outside of the four walls
of a home daily tasks such as cooking
and laundry and washing dishes are
accomplished in the front yard but when
we moved to Liberia we would sit on the
front porch and we would watch fights
break out between our neighbors we
witness everything from yelling to
physical fights and even some violent
fights where we had to call the police I
took a bold stand I began to stand on
the porch and pray for the Holy Spirit
to bring peace to our neighbors to mend
relationships and to transform hearts
the Holy Spirit did move in our
community and we have not went witness
one fight since I started praying there
is no other explanation but that the
Holy Spirit has moved among us to bring
this peace
you see the power of the Holy Spirit is
undeniable indisputable can become a
visible tangible manifestation of the
power of God when was the last time you
look for God's manifestation that you
came home and you told someone that you
saw the power of God at work then I
would ask are you looking for it
Jesus says stay in Jerusalem
tarry there until you have been endowed
with power from on high
it's not a theory this is what the Lord
wants us to do this was not just for his
disciples as for you and I for us to
pray and to invite God into our hearts
and to allow the power of the Holy
Spirit to do its work
here's what I want you to hear the same
power that raised Lazarus from the dead
is the same power that's available to
you and I the same power that Jesus used
to heal the blind the crippled the lame
the Deaf the dumb is the same power
that's available to you and I when we
pray the question is do we believe it do
we believe that it's the same power my
friends is the same power that when the
three Hebrew boys were thrown into a
fire because they trusted God it's the
same power that brought them out says
they didn't even have the smell of smoke
on them and it's the same power that
shut the lion's mouth for Daniel so he
could lay in there calm with peace it's
the same same power that shook the
prison walls when Paul and Silas was
there it's the same power that's
available to you and I we should pray
today for the Holy Spirit to fall on our
lives to fall on our hearts our our
marriages we should pray for the Holy
Spirit to fall on our ministries
fall on our visions in our dreams to
fall in our workplace we should pray for
the Holy Spirit to fall on our stubborn
attitudes to fall on our families our
finances to fall on our minds to fall on
our broken bodies so that we too might
be healed to do a great work for the
Lord remember the Holy Spirit uses its
power to break us and to remake us so
that we can be more how many of you
ready to be more Isaac would you come
and lead us in the word of prayer let us
pray
most gracious and loving God we thank
you on this morning Lord that you are
the Potter and we are the clay break us
and mold us into what you have called us
to be father we thank you that the power
of your Holy Spirit lives in our lives
right now that situation
our second reading this morning comes
from 1 John chapter 4 verses 7 through
21 beloved let us love one another
because love is from God everyone who
loves is born of God and knows God
whoever does not love does not know God
for god is love God's love was revealed
among us in this way God sent His only
Son into the world so that we might live
through him in this is love not that we
loved God but that he loved us and sent
his son to be the atoning sacrifice for
our sins beloved since God loved us so
much we also ought to love one another
no one has ever seen God if we love one
another God lives in US and his love is
perfected in us by this we know that we
abide in him and he in us because he has
given us of his spirit and we have seen
and do testify that the father has sent
his son as the savior of the world
God abide in those who confess that
Jesus is the Son of God and they abide
in God so we have known and believed the
love that God has for us god is love and
those who abide in love abide in God and
God abides in them love has been
perfected among us in this that we may
have boldness on the day of judgment
because as he is so are we in this world
there is no fear in love but perfect
love casts out fear for fear has to do
with punishment
and whoever fears has not reached
perfection in love we love because we
first loved us those who say I love God
and hate their brothers and sisters are
liars for those who do not love a
brother or sister whom they have seen
cannot love God whom they have not seen
the commandment we have from him is this
those who love God must love their
brothers and sisters also this is the
Word of God for the people of God let us
pray most gracious God I am a sinner say
by your grace and I'm truly grateful for
my salvation but I am a broken vessel
but I know all you have to do is say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and to do your will hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you were not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
there was a man who wished to be
accepted into the membership of a
certain church in Scotland and to
partake of the communion table the
elders asked him to give an account of
his faith but being a simple man he
could not put into words what he needed
to tell them however the elders knew
that this man was a man of God and they
they asked him to say something he says
I don't know what to say
I love the brother I love my brothers
and my sister somebody say good answer
good answer wouldn't it be nice if
we were asked to give an account of our
faith that we might respond by saying I
love my brothers and sisters my friends
love is the answer you know people are
looking at our lives and they may not
have a Bible but you might be the only
Bible that some people will ever see and
they're wondering if we're going to show
mercy they're wondering if we will show
grace if we will extend love remember
some people that we encounter may not
have been to church may not have a
church home may not have a relationship
with God but they're looking at you
they're looking at me we claim to know
him amen we say that we're Christians
they meant remember they're looking at
us says if we abide in love and we abide
in God for god is love then the love of
God is perfected in our hearts then
verse 13 says this is how we know that
we live in him and that he is in us when
we show love I love the story of Ruth
and let me just share a little bit of
the conversation and then I'll give you
a little of the summary behind it but
Ruth is talking I mean naomi is talking
to Ruth and she says see your
sister-in-law has gone back to her
people and to her God returned after
your sister-in-law but Ruth said do not
urge me to leave you
or to return from following you for
where you go I will go and where you
Lodge I will Lodge your people will be
my people and your God my God where you
die I will die and there I will be
buried
may the Lord do so to me and more also
if anything but death parts me from you
and when Naomi saw that she was
determined to go with her she said no
more love is the answer isn't it the
brief summary is this the setting for
the Book of Ruth begins in a heathen
country known as the country of Moab a
region northeast of the Dead Sea but it
moves to Bethlehem this true account
takes place during the dismal days of
the failure of the Israelites to obey
God it was a period called the judges a
famine for Similac and his wife Naomi
from their Israelite home to the country
of Moab Emelec for some reason he dies
and Naomi is left with her two sons who
marries two women from Moabite to
Moabite women Oprah and Ruth later both
of the sons died and Naomi and Ruth and
Naomi
I mean Ruth and Oprah are left with
Naomi in this strange land so Naomi says
to them go back to your own families
it's nothing more that I can do for you
and Oprah does but Ruth says no I'm with
you wherever you go I go and where you
Lodge I will Lodge yo God will be my god
and your people will be my people I
shared this story with you because it's
a true picture of love and devotion Ruth
wanting to just be there for Naomi and
as you read this story what's so
beautiful about it is later Ruth marries
a rich man Boaz and they have a son and
that son's name was Obed which became
the grandfather of King David and the
ancestor of Jesus so do you see how love
and obedience brings Ruth to the
privileged lineage of Jesus Christ's
love is the answer in verse 19 through
21 he says we love because He first
loved us whoever claims to love God yet
hates his brother or his sister is a
liar my friends when we don't love like
the Bible is telling us how to love then
we're walking in darkness
and his book pray of Prayer finding the
hearts true home
Richard Forrest the tells of an old sage
who asked his disciples how can we know
when darkness is leaving in the dawn is
coming one of the disciples chimed in
and he says when we can see a tree in
the distance and know that is a coconut
tree from a palm tree and the teacher
responded no the other one chimed in and
he says that when we can see an animal
know that it is a fox and not a wolf the
teacher said no puzzled they asked for
the answer and the wise sage said we
know that the darkness is leaving and
the dawn is coming
when we see another person and know that
that is our brother and our sister
otherwise we're still in darkness for
some of us living in darkness darkness
is the opposite of God's light and God's
love when Jesus spoke again to the
people he says I am the light of the
world whoever follows me will never walk
in darkness but will have the light of
Life
have you ever walked in darkness I'm
being serious I mean have you ever moved
around in your house you the lights are
off and you you kind of know where
everything is and you decide I'm just
gonna walk from this room and go get
what I need and you hit your knee you
stub your toe anybody else but me and my
wife can tell you when I move from one
room in the house the lights go on
amen and she follows behind me turning
lights out is the truth right sweetheart
all right Katherine Wade comes to our
age he wrote a blog talking about this
very thing she says we're all stumbling
trying to find our way in a dark room we
have all kinds of excuses of why we
choose not to just turn on the light
well we don't want to disturb our spouse
we don't want to disturb our roommate we
were given ourselves time for our eyes
to adjust to the darkness we're too lazy
to deal with it right now but life works
that way doesn't it
she says sometimes is convenient to
leave the light the light of God off and
then she asked the question are we
afraid to make the adjustments that we
need to make are we afraid of change and
she asked the question why are we going
through life stumbling and she says some
of us are stumbling in our marriage
we're stumbling and parenting and
grandparenting it's we're stumbling in
our spiritual life
even in our career and then she says
turn on the light just simple turn on
the light I'm reminded of how dark this
world can be and how sin in the lack of
love has affected all of humanity and
because of the darkness of sin in the
lack of love we put love on the back
burner because
of the darkness of sin some of us refuse
to love brotherly neighborly or Nagappa
manner Isaac I'm going to put you on the
spot come and take the mic because of
darkness and sin and the lack of love
what do you see in the world I see in
the world where we have taken prayer
which is the light out of the schools
and opened it up for the darkness to
come in which is why we see the killings
in the schools that we see now Isaac
because of the darkness of sin and the
lack of love what else do you see I see
that sometimes we we see our brother or
sister standing on the street corner
we've already prejudged that book based
on the cover of that book but you also
have to see that person as a child of
God your brother or your sister Thank
You Barbra vests would you stand for us
so we can hear you because of the
darkness of sin and the lack of love in
the world what do you see Amen
Reyna would you stand because of
darkness of sin and lack of love in the
world what do you see
very good Laura one of our master
teachers because of darkness and sin and
the lack of love in the world what do
you see Amen Hugh Harris would you stand
because of darkness of sin and the lack
of love in the world what do you see
thank you
now none of these folks knew that I was
going to call on them but sometimes we
need to think about what goes on in the
world because of the lack of love in the
world
how hate takes over we see it every day
remember what I told you that the people
and the world to a loss are looking at
us who claim to be Christians and
they're looking for love they're looking
for the light they're looking for the
splendor of God's grace love is the
answer
love is the answer I'll never forget I
had a friend who was a Caucasian friend
I was at my grandmother's house we were
playing in the yard and my uncle Gene my
father's brother he came in and he says
what is that little boy doing in here
and I said what do you mean and where my
grandmother lived was not the best
section of town and he was worried about
this little boy safety he was worried
about me but he was also prejudiced and
he says you should take that little boy
home and I was boy I was mad and I went
in and I wanted to talk to my
grandmother about this he had no right
and so I told my grandmother what uncle
Gene did and she said come with me so
you know I'm a young boy and I'm like
grandma where we going just come with me
shut your mouth and come with me so we
go outside and she says son what do you
see I said I see flowers she slapped me
upside the head I know you see flowers
tell me something about the flowers I
said I see red I see blue I see she says
are they beautiful
I said yes grandma she said any of them
beautiful more than the next
I said no they're all beautiful
she said equally I said yes she says
that's Grandmama's answer go and love
your friend love is the answer love is
the answer I'm gonna close with this
Meredith fields lawyer says this she
shares this story my grandmother was
dying this much I knew and I was at
peace she had lived a beautiful 86 years
and was ready to go to heaven and to see
all of our loved ones that had already
passed
my sister and I said set by her bed we
did this for many hours in the last week
of her life I would rub her hands wash
her face with a warm cloth sing to her
tell us some of my favorite memories as
sometimes simply held the quiet space
when she slept she began sleeping more
and more to the point that she was not
waking up at all I welcomed this
transition as I knew that it was
bringing her closer to a homecoming
I let myself grieve and I I thought
about it I would never hear her voice
again see her smile or be hugged by her
arms again her hugs always meant that I
was loved unconditionally but something
strange happened she woke up she smiled
and began to tell me about the loved
ones in heaven and that she was looking
forward to going to meet them she wanted
to hear about her son's and to ensure
that they were at peace with life
without her she then asked about each of
her grandchildren her
great-grandchildren I laid beside her I
held her hand and I ensured her that all
was going to be ok that we all loved
each other and would care for each other
and will remember her always the tears
flowed from my eyes while my grandmother
had a look of complete peace and
assurance I told her how much I loved
her and she turned to me and she said
I love you more those were the last
words that she ever spoke she passed
away the next day in complete peace as
my sister and I sang Amazing Grace over
her but it is my belief that God used
the death of my grandmother to teach me
what is most important my grandmother
gave me the gift of what really matters
love is the answer she says love is the
answer my friends this is what God is
saying through John in 1st John chapter
4 verses 7 through 21 in the first book
of John and this epistle loved one
another is spoken 43 times it's
important it's essential that's how
they'll know that we are his disciples
if we love one another Isaac would you
come and close us in a word of Prayer
let us pray let's Heavenly Father we
thank you on this morning for your word
Lord and we ask that you help us God to
love one another not just inside these
walls but help us to love those who are
outside of these walls Lord because you
loved us when we were not so so good to
love or so kind but Lord we thank you
that you have touched each and every
heart Lord and filled us with the love
of Christ because you sent Christ to die
for our sins and father we just thank
you on today that you continue to move
mildly throughout the body of Christ to
help brothers and sisters to love one
another unconditionally don't put a
price tag on it
if I don't put a merit on it Lord don't
put a because you do this for me then I
will love you for that but just love
unconditionally doesn't matter what it
is and God we would thank you God we
praise you on this morning and god we
thank you for that prayer that Jesus
taught his disciples to pray when he
said our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever
is from 1 John chapter 3 verses 16
through 24 we know love by this that he
laid down his life for us and we ought
to lay down our lives for one another
how does God's love abide in anyone who
has the world's goods and sees a brother
or sister in need and yet refuses to
help little children let us love not in
Word or speech but in truth and action
and by this we will know that we are
from the truth and will reassure our
hearts before him whenever our hearts
condemn us for God is greater than our
hearts and he knows everything
beloved if our hearts do not condemn us
we have boldness before God and we
receive from him whatever we ask because
we obey his Commandments and do what
pleases him and this is his commandment
that we should believe in the name of
his son Jesus Christ and love one
another just as he had commanded us all
who obey His commandments abide in him
and he abides in them and by this we
know that he abides in us by the spirit
that he has given us this is the word of
God for the people of God
[Music]
they said rent-free
rolls in they said crucify
[Music]
nice
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Oh
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the process of shake it
and when he cried himself to salvations
one
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
let us pray most gracious God I'm a
sinner saved by your grace and I'm truly
grateful but I am a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer what's
in Christ's name I pray amen
one a challenge you're thinking this
morning with the thought it's all about
love part two it's all about love part
two author John auth Burke in his book
the life you've always wanted shares one
of the most profound statements I've
heard about the human condition and he
does so by talking about Popeye the
sailorman how many of you've heard of
Popeye the sailorman
and he says whenever Popeye felt
inadequate or frustrated Popeye the
sailorman would say I am what I am
he says come on he wasn't a
sophisticated guy I don't think he's
ever been 2/3 because he wasn't in touch
with his shadow side or his inner child
but we know that he was a man who knew
who he was he was a sea loving
pipe-smoking
I loved all loving sailor man and the
one thing that we could appreciate about
Popeye
was that he did not pretend to be
something that he was not he owned his
story but off Burke says when I think
about his expression I understand that
explained his shortcomings but it never
anticipated his growth or change it
never said what he could become but it
talked about what he was not it was a
fixed position I am what I am thanks be
to God that that's not our story amen
that in God we can be more than we are
even today tomorrow we can be more my
sons Joshua's prayer is Lord make me
better what I like about Joshua's
prayers that there's hope and that
simple prayer that what we are today
tomorrow we can be more thanks be to God
for second Corinthians 5 verse 17 puts
it this way
anyone who belongs to Christ has become
a new person the old life is gone the
new life has begun we're not stuck we
can become more you know when I think
about the life of Jesus he was
criticized for the people that he hung
out with he hung out with risky women he
hung out with political people tax
collectors he hung out with the sick the
disabled the demon-possessed but it
seems as though Jesus was saying to the
world I really don't care what you think
about me I'm gonna do what I believe is
the right thing to do I don't care that
you want me to hang out with Isaac I'm
gonna hang out with Isaac anyway because
it's the right thing to do Jesus was
saying in other words that in the
kingdom of God they're no so-called
important or unimportant people
everybody is significant to God amen so
sometimes we look at people different
but God looks at the heart thanks be to
God
John 13 verses 34 and 35 says it like
this a new commandment I give you love
one another as I have loved you so you
must love one another by this everyone
will know that you are my disciples and
then he says it again if you love one
another Romans 15 verses 6 and 7 says it
like this so that me we may be of one
mind and one voice so that we might
glorify God the Father and then it says
except one another just as Christ
accepted you so that he might bring
glory to the Father was really
interesting and I've shared this last
week and some of you may not have been
the heir but Jesus turns everything on
his on its head and he says to the
disciples the mark of being my disciple
as if you love one another that's the
Mart you don't need a t-shirt you don't
need to be a part of my alma mater you
don't need to be a part of a fraternity
or sorority the mark of being my
disciple is if you love one another but
love is so important Reverend Gregory
dick now in his book the power of
changed shares this story he said that
when he was about 10 years old he was
always planning his Great Escape he
wanted to run away from home and then he
says but I needed to run away simply
because the pain was too much to bear
tempers in our home flew high and fights
were really intense he says I felt like
I was dropped in an emotional war zone
anger erupted like thunder and fear
chilled my soul in our home
there was little tenderness or affection
there for even as a little boy I learned
to build a thick wall around me that
nothing could penetrate it I learned to
become invisible as I've faded into the
background of every place I've ever been
continuing he says I shared this with
you because there's so many of you who
have experienced even worse than me
there folks out there who've experienced
total abandonment physical abuse
psychological and emotional abuse sexual
abuse and enlists goes on and on and
then he says if you identify with any of
any of these then you know what I mean
when I say growing up with the absence
of love so those of you who might be
saying what's the point of sharing that
story I'm so glad you asked we live in a
world that longs to be loved Amen
everybody wants to be loved it doesn't
matter whether you are young or old or
single or married rich or poor urban or
suburban everyone everywhere wants to be
loved and indeed everyone wants to be
valued and that's just how God created
us he created us to be relational human
beings I need you and you need me
because the scripture says that we are
to love one another
aren't you glad it didn't say like one
another because there's some folks who
are hard to like amen but he says that
we are to love one another I need you
and you need me scripture says if I have
a naught against my brother that I'm to
go and recount to myself to that brother
even before I bring my offering to the
Lord I need you and you need me this
scripture
ask a question are we willing to lay our
lives down for our brethren I like the
way Shari put it in her children's
message what are we willing to do to
lift up another I was talking to Isaac
this morning he was trying to help me
anybody else
computer challenged to anybody just me
and I was doing fine and I was I had
worked my sermon and I was working with
it and all of a sudden the font changed
and all of a sudden something happened
so when Isaac walked in the door I saw a
gift anybody know what I'm talking about
and I said Isaac helped me I don't know
what happened I was working on it I did
something and he said let me see what I
can do and he got it back but three and
a half pages was gone and Isaac said
what do you mean three and a half bit I
said I don't know where it is so what I
will say to you is God didn't want me to
preach those three and a half pages amen
but I shared a story with Isaac that I
want to share with you I was in seminary
and I was invited by a Baptist Church to
preach a youth rally it's about 150 200
youth there and I knew to prepare myself
I got the lesson I got the scripture I
worked that sermon I worked on it every
day because I wanted to get up there
without notes but I still had it with me
and I was man I was ready but let me
tell you what really happened
I liked hearing what they said about me
before I came up this is Reverend parson
and he'd been to st. Peter's College and
he graduated with the BA in theology I'm
sitting on the side and then it says and
he graduated with the Masters of
Divinity from Union psee
and then he graduated again with the
masses
and Christian education I wanted to feel
successful anybody's ever been out there
and just as I got to the podium God said
don't preach that message I said Lord
that's not funny don't tell me that what
am I supposed to do Lord what am I
supposed to do and God said talk to them
about love tell them what I've done for
you share your story now all of this is
happening before I mounted the podium
and I'm like frozen because I'm scared
I've practiced everything and he doesn't
want me to use any of the material I
used so I got up there and I just said
how many of you come from a
single-parent home and all of the hands
went up how many of you being taken care
of by your grandparents half of the
hands we're not how many of you have a
family member that's incarcerated every
single hand we're not how many of you
come from a family that struggled with
drugs and alcohol every single hand went
up and I said let me locate myself I
come from a single-parent home my dad
messed his life up with alcohol and
drugs I know what you're going through I
know what that's like but the day I came
to talk to you about love and I want to
share with you today what God has done
for me let me just tell you what the end
result was eleven young people came and
gave their lives to the Lord that day
but if I had
each the message that I had practice I'm
not sure that would have happened how
many of you know that God knows best
father knows best I began to share with
those young people where God had done in
my life and that he was there all the
time even the times when I felt lonely
when I didn't think that things were
working out he was there all the time
amen and then when he called me he says
Derrick I want you to preach my word and
teach my word and draw my people to me
and I've been doing that since I've been
19 years old what a powerful message and
here's the message that I tell people
there's no sin greater than the love of
God amen there is no sin greater than
the love of God how many of you know
that love covers a multitude of sins
that's what the scripture says I don't
know about you but the grace that I've
experienced I want other people to
experience it and you know what's hard
for us it's hard to talk to other people
about love when we don't think that we
deserve it ourselves hello and love your
neighbor as yourself but what if you
don't love yourself it's a difficult
task isn't it sometimes when I read
scripture characters jump out at me I
thought about Moses killing a man
fleeing to the backside of Midian for 40
years probably saying to themselves I'm
not worthy I'm not worthy of God's love
look what I've done
don't you know that that's just how the
enemy wants to get in there and tell us
we're not worthy we're not worthy of
God's love
but God says Moses I want to use you yes
you I've got a plan and I've got a
purpose for you my friends if we could
talk to Moses today and say tell me
about the last 40 years of your life we
would hear a love story amen
I thought about Peter and you could
imagine he was Jesus friend and in his
hour of need he denied him three times
could you imagine how the enemy got in
there
Peter you messed up you really messed up
three times you denied Jesus he was your
friend
how could you so that Peter would never
think that he was worthy of God's love
but after the resurrection somebody say
after the resurrection Jesus showed up
and he says Peter do you love me
yes Lord I love you Peter do you love me
yes Lord I love you and he asked him a
third time and Peter said Lord you know
all things you know that I love you feed
my sheep he restored him it's about love
isn't it it's about love that makes us
the disciples that we are to be Peters
first sermon thousands gave their lives
to the Lord thousands but it was love
that restored Peter I think of Saul
before he became Paul persecuting the
Church of God
looking sure that the people of God
would either be killed or thrown into
prison and Jesus spirit showed up and
knocked him off his horse and he says
Saul why do you persecute me who are you
I am Jesus the one you persecute could
you imagine how the enemy would have
gotten in there you definitely don't
deserve God's love what you've done
you've persecuted its church remember my
friends the enemy's job is to kill steal
and destroy
and he'll lie to you and tell you that
you don't deserve God's love it's not
about whether we deserve it or not God
has lavished us with love and that's the
love that we should lavish on to another
I would love to talk to the Apostle Paul
about the time after he fell off that
horse broke most of the New Testament I
would love to talk to him about the love
of God and how he experienced it but
here's what I want you to hear for God
so loved the world that He gave His only
begotten Son that whosoever I'm a part
of that whosoever you a part of that
whosoever that whosoever believe in Him
should not perish but have everlasting
life
could you imagine sending your only
begotten Son to die for Humanity and as
my son to do the same
I'm not there but I know I have life an
eternal life because God is he's done a
great thing for us and sending Jesus
Christ and what does he want from us
that we would obey this commandment and
that is that we would love one another
Isaac would you come and close this
message with prayer
can you grab the hand of your neighbor
sitting next to you because the love of
God is in each one of us and you may
have just enough love to give to that
neighbor that's sitting next to you they
may be hurting you don't know what
they're going through right now but God
knows so let us pray father we thank you
this morning that your love abides in us
Lord and father we pray that you
continue to help us to love one another
as you have loved us and God we thank
you that we may show that grace and that
mercy that you have shown to us father
that we may have many gifts we may have
the gift to sing Lord you may have the
gift Lord to do many miracles and we may
have gifts Lord to preach your word but
God we can have all those things but if
we don't have love all of that means
nothing father help us right now to walk
in your love to show love to those who
are on the highways and the byways those
that are standing on the street corners
father help us to show your love to them
as you have shown to us help us to touch
that family member that we have not
heard from in a long time because of
something that was said but God your
love your love covers a multitude of
sins
help us to forgive less you have
forgiven us and father will always
remember to say that prayer that Jesus
started disciples when he said our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power and the
glory forever amen
our second reading this morning is from
1 John chapter 3 verses 1 through 7 and
also 17 through 8 see what love the
father has given us that we should be
called children of God and that is what
we are the reason the world does not
know us is that it did not know him
beloved we are God's children now what
we will be has not yet been revealed
what we do what we do know is this when
he is revealed we will be like him for
we will see him as he is and all who
have this hope in him purifies
themselves just as he is pure everyone
who commits sin is guilty of lawlessness
sin is lawlessness you know that he was
revealed to take away sins and in him
there is no sin no one who abides in him
sins no one who sins has either seen him
or known him little children let no one
deceive you everyone who does what is
right is righteous just as he is
righteous verse 17 and 18 how does God's
love abide in anyone who has the world's
goods and sees a brother or sister in
need and yet refuses to help little
children let us love not in Word or
speech but in truth and action this is
the Word of God for the people of God
let us pray most gracious God I'm a
sinner saved by your grace and I am
grateful but I am a broken vessel and I
know that all you have to do is say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and to do your will hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer force in
Christ name I pray I want to challenge
your thinking this morning
with the thought it's all about love can
you say that to one another it's all
about love if I were to ask the question
who are you some of you might respond by
telling me your name
I am so-and-so but I'm not asking what
is your name when I ask who are you let
me play with a little bit if I were to
ask some of you who are you might say
that I'm a doctor I'm a lawyer I'm a
teacher I'm a school I'm a bus driver
that's what you do that's not who you
are what I love about this text this
morning as Isaac is read and you're
hearing is that it says that we are the
children of God that's who we are we are
the children of God I want you to take a
journey with me this morning and it's
the journey to talk about the love of
God I want you to experience the love of
God this day it's interesting when we
read this text it shows that Jesus did
something that had never been done
before
he wanted his people to be identified in
a different kind of way you know
sometimes we we look around and people
wear military uniforms and they can be
identified that way school uniforms or
if they you know your alma mater people
can be identified that way fraternities
and sororities t-shirts but Jesus did
something and he turned it upside down
he turned it on his head
Jesus says they'll know that you're my
disciples if you love one another Jesus
is saying the mark of a disciple is if
we love doesn't say if we tell people
OFF it says that we love isn't this
interesting that the mark of a disciple
is about loving have you been loved like
this how many of you know the love that
I'm talking about I'm not talking about
a conditional kind of love I'm not
talking about the kind of love if you do
this for me
then I'll do that for you that's not the
love that I'm talking about this morning
I'm talking about agape love genuine
goodwill towards another person simply
because it's the love that God wants us
to extend to another
talking about love William Shakespeare
said it like this love all trust view
and do wrong to no one Brian McGill says
it like this there is no love without
forgiveness and there's no forgiveness
without love and Landers says it like
this love is friendship caught on fire
it's a quiet understanding a mutual
confidence in one another it's sharing
it's forgiving its loyalty through the
good and the bad times it settles for
less than perfection and it makes
allowances for human weakness do you
know the kind of love that I'm talking
about this morning I'm talking about
agape love when I think about this I
think about an acts 2 verses 9 through
12 it talks about a real community where
the church knew how to love listen those
who were saved got together and
immediately began meeting each other's
needs and the believers were together
and they had everything in common you
mean no bickering it says and they had
everything in common they sold property
and possessions to give to anyone who
had a need what if we were able to love
like this that we put people's needs
above our own above whether we thought
that they were worthy of it or not but
we did it simply because it was the
right thing to do
do you know the kind of love that I'm
talking about this morning there's a
story of a little boy Shawn he's 13
years old and he and his dad are walking
downtown Mainstreet
and they passed by an animal shelter and
there was a little puppy in the cage and
above the cage it says death row one
more day to live and the little boy says
daddy what does that mean
he said well Sunday they don't have
enough space for all of these animals
and they can't house all of them and
they're trying to get families to take
these animals because they would have to
put them to sleep you mean kill them
well yeah I mean put them to sleep you
mean kill them well yeah well dad can't
we do something about it what do you
want to do well couldn't we take this
little puppy home well son you already
have two hamsters I don't think that
well that is not the same thing what do
you mean well dad in the lesson that you
taught me the other day you said that
before Jesus came we were doomed and we
needed Jesus forgiveness for our sins
Jesus rescued us right that well yeah
well this little puppy needs us to
rescue him and the father says well
since you put it that way I don't know
that I have a choice let's go get the
puppy have you been rescued this morning
how many of you know what it feels like
to be rescued anybody but I'm talking
about being rescued by the love of God
you see when we love like this we want
better for our children better for our
grandchildren better for the people in
our community when we love like this my
grandmother probably had
education of maybe the sixth grade and
and then migrated from the south to the
north and and began to find work and so
forth my mother had a high school
education and never had an opportunity
to go to college but here I stand I was
able to go to college and not only that
the Lord blessed me with two masters
degrees I'm not bragging on myself I'm
talking about the goodness of God I'm
talking about people who prayed they
loved me so much that they prayed that I
would have the opportunity how many of
you know what I'm talking about we ought
to want better for our children we ought
to want better for our grandchildren are
you with me I'm talking about the love
of God Peter Gomes says it this way he
says God's love is amazing and within
his love there is initiative and action
he says God the Father sending his son
in human form as the baby not as an
adult but as a child so that he could
experience all the things that we
experience he says that's love in action
if God can invest himself and his love
in the human form of a man born of a
woman and who suffers as we suffer and
died as we have to die dare we not trust
in God dare we invest in ourselves less
than in the world and then he makes this
emphatic statement he says
is God sign that you and I are lovable
maybe people in the world told you that
you are not lovable that you're not
worth anything
Peter Gomes says this is God's sign that
you and I are lovable this is the
evidence this is your living proof that
God loves here's what I want you to hear
I'm gonna stand here so because I know
he's live streaming I want him to be
able to get it God loves us he's got a
plan and he's got a purpose for our
lives I don't know about you but I want
to hear him say well done my good and
faithful servant you've been faithful
over a few things how many of you want
to hear him say that to me my friends
we're in the right place we've got
everything that we need Providence you
are great Church because I've seen
scriptures come alive right here in this
place Micah 6 and 8 what does the Lord
require of thee but to do justly to love
mercy and to walk humbly with our God I
see people in this church doing that I
don't know about you but I want to hear
him say well done when I think about
Providence I want to say to you that you
a great church would it be nice to hear
the master say to us when I was hungry
you fed me when I was naked you clothed
me when I was in prison you were
concerned about me
you brought me consolation my friends
the love of God is so real so powerful
so amazing that the God who created
all things says I love you he says daya
the hairs on your head are numbered I
know you I created you I've got a plan
and I've got a purpose for you the love
that I'm talking about
it's amazing kind of love it says that
we would pray for those who despitefully
use us those who curse us we would even
pray for them and I know some of you are
saying I don't know about some people I
don't want to pray for them but when you
love on this level you're able to do it
because you know that God is operating
in your heart to show love to show grace
you know when I do something for someone
and they say Derrick thank you so much
you know what I'm saying in my own heart
lord thank you for the opportunity
that's the least that I can do when I
think my friends about the love of God
this holy magnificent God loving me a
sinner it's the least that I can do is
to show love to someone else that's what
the scripture is talking about it's
telling us don't get it wrong you're not
what you do you're a child of the king
of the Most High God he's got a plan and
a purpose for you the question is will
you live it will do you extend that same
love in that same grace to someone else
Peter Gomes says if God can love like
this and send His only begotten Son in
human form to die for us what more
should we do
beseech you therefore brethren by the
mercies of God that ye present your
bodies as a living sacrifice holy
acceptable unto God which is your
reasonable service be not conformed to
this world but be transformed by the
renewing of your mind he loves you
you're lovable I'm lovable not for
anything that I've done simply because
he's God Isaac I want you to come and
lead us in prayer some of you may have
never experienced the love of God I'm
praying today that even as Isaac prays
for us and you close your eyes bow your
head that you might feel God's presence
today be reminded that he loves you here
a deep down in the matter of your spirit
that he's got a plan and a purpose for
you that you let us pray
most Heavenly Father we just think you
want our Father because you are our
Father and we are your children god we
thank you that you continue to move in
our hearts Lord that we may love our
neighbor as ourselves and father we may
find it in the hearts to love one
another Lord just like you love us and
father we just pray this morning that
you will continue to move modeling each
and every family each and every
circumstance and situation in their
lives Lord and father I pray right now
for your love your peace Lord that
passes all understanding I pray that the
joy of the Lord shall be our strength
Lord and we thank you on today for that
prayer that Jesus taught his disciples
to pray when he said our Father who art
in heaven hallowed be thy name thy
kingdom come thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven give us this day our
daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom the power and the glory forever
me maybe I should come forth that we
listen for the scripture reading John 1
verses 35 to 40 to the next day John
again was standing with two of his
disciples and as he watched Jesus walked
by he exclaimed look here is the Lamb of
God the two disciples heard him say this
and they followed Jesus when Jesus
turned and saw them following he said to
them what are you looking for that's a
good question for his church what are
you looking for and they said to him
rabbi which is translated teacher where
are you staying and he said to them come
and see they came and they saw where he
was staying and they remained with him
that day it was about 4 o'clock in the
afternoon one of the two who heard John
speak and followed him was Andrew simon
Peters brother he first found his
brother Simon and said to him we have
found the Messiah which is translated
The Anointed One
he brought Simon to Jesus who looked at
him and said you are Simon the son of
John you are to be called Cephas which
is translated Peter may the Lord at a
rich blessing to the reading the hearing
of God's Holy Word made sink deep down
and bring forth much fruit the Word of
God for the people of God Robyn is
coming to sing for us and we were
together at Asbury Memorial I was the
pastor there for five and a half years
and each time that she would saying it
was truly truly a delight so let's give
her another province welcome
[Applause]
Amazing Grace how sweet the sound that
saved a wretch like me
[Music]
he wants
but now I am found was blind but now I
see twas grace their turn my
to fear and grace my fears relieved how
precious did that grace appear the hour
I first believed
through many dangers toils and snares hi
here home already come tis grace hath
brought me safe thus far and grace will
lead me home when we've been there ten
thousand years bright shining as the Sun
we've no less days to sing God's praise
then win
we first begun how once was lost but now
I'm found was blind but now I see
[Music]
[Applause]
in the first service I told them that I
sound like that in the shower
and somebody said I'm bringing the
shower next week because I want to hear
it
Robin thank you so much for sharing it
with us let us pray most gracious Scott
I am a sinner saved by your grace and
I'm grateful for the gift of salvation
Oh Lord I'm still a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hi this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me
in the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer amen
talk to you this morning with the
thought what I did with the paper
discipleship I want to talk to you about
discipleship when we look at the text
today that was read in your hearing
it's truly talking about discipleship
what it means to be a disciple
Reverend Jay yearnings was talking about
following Jesus and he says it like this
he says that there have been times in my
life that I've made the mistake of doing
things my own way
I've always known to wait on the Lord
but there have been times when I wanted
to do things on my own no doubt that
this is one of the biggest mistakes that
any of us could ever make what we should
remember is that when we decide to do
things on our own that we're stepping
out on our own will and we're moving
away from the will of God far from God's
protection and care it's like this one
day we have a good solid relationship
with God and the next day we don't one
day you were studying the word and you
were reading the word and you had
devotional time and now and all of a
sudden you moved away from it one week
you say that you just don't feel like
going to church and before you know it
it's a month and you haven't darkened
the doors of a church anybody know what
I'm talking about it can happen to any
of us
sheep go astray nibble by nibble and
they don't even realize that they've
moved away from the flock but what
Reverend yearning says is is really
significant
he says when this happened there are no
red flags there are no sirens that go
off and to tell you that you have gone
too far but he says we got to think
about it we got to think about our
relationship with the Lord and we got to
work on it we've got to be intentional I
want to talk to you today about what it
means to be a disciple reverend mark
Batterson and his book all-in
says it like this he says most people
and most churches think that they're
following Jesus but I'm not sure he says
they may think that they are following
Jesus but in reality they have invited
Jesus to follow them somebody ought to
say oh my furthermore he says too many
times even in my own life I want Jesus
to follow me to serve me to serve my
purposes to do my will and he says and
whenever that happens I tried to caution
myself slow myself down and I pray this
prayer dear God revived my life help me
to follow you Lord helped me to get out
of the way so that you can navigate my
life help me to follow all of your ways
as you make me into
a true disciple I'm gonna challenge your
thinking this morning with the thought
discipleship discipleship have you ever
gone to see a movie that just wild you
and you you want it your friends to see
it because you were just so ready to
tell them all about it this oh man when
that's it no but you can't talk about it
but you got to encourage your friend to
go see it so y'all can get together and
just have a ball talking about a movie
anybody's ever been there some of us do
that with TV shows but when I read this
scripture it read like that for me then
I got excited about it I got excited
because I wanted to share some of these
things with you but I looked at the x1
disciple after another having an
incredible encounter with Jesus and as I
said to you last week when we have an
encounter with Jesus we don't remain the
same are you with me he changes us
transforms us and it's like having a
Broadway play but you get the better
results from the word of mouth not from
you know all of the professional
advertisement but when people tell you
how good it is you want to go see it you
want to go see the play we've gone to
see Lion King many times because we
enjoyed it but the first point that I
that I found when I looked at this text
is John the Baptist knows his place amen
sometimes it's good for us to know our
place that we are creatures and not the
Creator amen because too often we want
to do things our way and being a
disciple means that we're going to
follow after Jesus
john the baptist knows his place listen
to what the text says I'm gonna read it
again the next day John saw Jesus coming
toward him and he says look the Lamb of
God who takes away the sins of the world
this is the one that I mean when I said
a man's coming after me has surpassed me
because he was before me I myself did
not know him but I came baptizing with
water was that he might be revealed to
Israel then John gave his testimony I
saw the Spirit come down from heaven as
a dove and it remained on him and I
myself did not know him but the one who
sent me to baptize with water told me
the man whom you see the spirit come
down and remember he will baptize with
water but he will baptize with the Holy
Spirit
I have seen and I have testified that he
is God's chosen one you remember it was
John who says look I'm gonna baptize
with water but this one who's coming
after me he's going to baptize with the
Holy Spirit but I'm not even worthy to
untie his sandals John knew his place
sometimes it's good for us to know our
place amen I've been blessed in my life
I've had the opportunity to serve seven
and a half years in the Marine Corps and
loved most of it I won't say every
minute of it I'll say most of it and
then even after my guidance counselor in
high school told me that I was in
college material I went to st. Peters
BA in theology that's where I met my
wife she was there waiting on me and she
graduated summa cum laude I graduated
thank you Laurie but I was able to leave
st. Peter's with the BA in theology and
I came to Richmond to Union Presbyterian
School of Christian education where I
got a Masters of Divinity and went back
and got a master's in Christian
education I don't share that to toot my
own horn all glory goes to God but I
wanted to say to you that with all of my
education I wouldn't take my education
from seminary and undergrad and put in
the same room with my grandmother's
wisdom anybody know what I'm talking
about
my grandmother was amazing she could use
anything to teach a lesson you were just
just sitting there and she's reading the
paper and she says son come here she
said read the Metro section for me and I
read that where somebody stole something
from somebody and they were arrested she
said well how long do you think it took
for them to sort of figure out who they
were gonna rob or whatever I said maybe
two weeks she said let's give him a
month okay she said well how long do you
think it took them to break into the
house I said well not long maybe 20
minutes she says let's give him an hour
I said okay she says now how much time
you think they gonna spend in jail I
said a lot of time grandma she said does
it add up I said no it doesn't she says
okay go back and sit down and play
grandma had the way of of just teaching
a lesson out of anything so I knew my
place I was never gonna act like I was
so smart around her John the Baptist he
knew his place what I love about this
story is that when you read it I'm
whipping for the fight
I'm waiting for the argument John sees
Jesus and he points to him and he says
here's the Lamb of God who takes away
the sins of the world and his disciples
leave him and follow Jesus I'm like what
sorry
rush the two pages did I miss something
there's no argument I mean John the
Baptist didn't say well when you're
going you my disciples Jesus got his own
disciples we don't hear that in the text
because John understood his place that
he was a witness that he was a conduit
for what God wanted to do what I love
about these disciples because they
wasn't there when Jesus got baptized but
when John said that it says that they
left him to follow Jesus I like that and
so my second point if you're writing
down is you can't go wrong following
Jesus you cannot go wrong
following Jesus Jesus asks the question
what are you looking for I like that
question it seems simple on the surface
but what are you looking for maybe that
same question can come through the vist
of time right here to Provence what are
you looking for when you come to church
what are you looking for let me be silly
for a minute
Lord you ask me what am I looking for I
come to church because I want the pastor
to preach me happy good luck with that
lord I come to church because I want the
choir to sing me happy
lord I want to be a part of a strong
church with a good youth group so I can
just drop my kids off and have some
respite for two hours and then I'll be
happy
Lord I want to be a part of a church
where they don't ask for money I don't
want to pay etad I want to give what I
want to give when I want to give it
amen oh my what does all of these
statements have to do would being a
disciple and here's what I want you to
hear it's the spirits job to make us
holy not happy amen
maybe y'all then hear me in the back I'm
just gonna walk closer to you it's the
spirits job to make us holy not to make
us happy are you with me and too often
we get that wrong we think that when we
become Christians that we supposed to
lay down and somebody's gonna come and
have the big fan and we gonna drink
lemonade and iced tea with some fruit in
it and and so forth and the Christian
experience is not like that at all amen
but my question for you is what does it
mean to be a disciple to you now I could
have come up with a definition of what a
disciple means but you've been in church
and I'm asking the question rhetorically
I don't want you to respond what does it
mean to be a disciple to you when you
think about your baptismal covenant what
does it mean to be a disciple to you are
we part-time disciples you know the
attitude that I'll come to church when I
feel like it and if I don't feel like it
then I don't go I'll come to Sunday
school when I feel like it but if I
don't feel like it then I won't do it
what does it mean to be a disciple
I came across this article and it says
how the church today is getting
discipleship wrong but he says it like
this he says one of the ways that you
know that you're making progress is when
you stop having the same discussions
with yourself with your church with your
family over and over and over again he
says if you're discussing the same
issues in your mind at home on your job
year after year you're probably stuck so
my question is are you stuck this
morning when it comes to the discussion
around discipleship I believe that there
many churches he says that get it wrong
they're stuck then he asked these
questions what if the popular
understanding of discipleship is
producing some of the ill-health in the
church it's producing stagnation and a
decline that we see all around us and
here's a second and what if we can do
something about it like rethinking what
discipleship means it's based on your
covenant yes it's based on you following
Jesus but it's based on your covenant is
not about lip service it's about our
relationship
it's about
intentional about our relationship one
of the things that I love about this
text is that in following Jesus the
spirit becomes contagious when we look
at the text those two disciples they
they follow Jesus they hang out with him
all day and then when their lives are
transformed notice it says Andrew
written found his brother Simon not only
did he find him but he brought him back
to Jesus and when Jesus seasons he says
Simon son of John I'm gonna rename you
Cephas
you're gonna be Peter the rock what I
love about this story is if I were to
say to you I want to give you directions
to my house all you got to do is you got
to take 64 you go 64 you go to Gaskins
Road North you get off Gaskins you go
about 2 miles up you hang a left on
hungry you go about a mile and a half
down and you hang a right on timber pass
you go about two blocks over and then
you hang the LEF and you'll be on broad
meadows road and you can stop at 50 20
broad nettles road some of you will
probably be right in directions down and
saying yeah I'm not going over there
that's a long way all the way over there
but if I said to you let's get in the
car want to show you where I live and I
took you to my house it would lower your
anxiety amen and you would know exactly
where that's what I loved about what
Andrew did
Andrew could have gone to see Peter days
later and said Amen I had an encounter
with this guy they called them aside his
name was Jesus and it was awesome
and Peter would say well where was he oh
man he was in the town square and it was
great he was talking to us and teaching
that's not what Andrew did Andrew says
let me take you to what have we had the
same attitude that Andrew has you know
the next-door neighbor that we get a cup
of sugar from they get a cup of milk
from us every now and then and instead
of just inviting them one time that but
continued to invite you know because
sometimes even our neighbors we say well
I invited them to church that was like
two years ago at Easter or Christmas
Amen lady in my life miss Mitchell kept
inviting me to church even when I was
lying and telling her that I worked on
Sundays she kept inviting me to church
and she would put her arm around me and
she would say and when we come to church
I want you to sit right next to me
what if we had miss Mitchell spirit to
keep on inviting do you know we have
family members that we need to invite to
church you can nod your head and say
Amen we have family members who don't
know them then we need to invite to the
church you can say Amen all right miss
Mitchell never gave up on me I'm talking
about months of this go to our house for
a great meal lavish meal she invited me
to church I'd lie and say I was working
I was 19 years old let me just say that
18 or 19 but when I gave my life to the
Lord I set right next to miss Mitchell
miss Mitchell began to teach me how to
understand the Bible and do devotions
with me and took the time to share with
me
the planted the seeds no doubt about it
but Miss Mitchell watered the seeds what
if we had a spirit like Miss Mitchell
and a burden for those who don't know
the Lord I say this and I've said this
many times the most selfish people I've
ever met
some Christians pastor why do you say
that I'm so glad you asked the reason
why I say that is because we've got this
good thing but we want to keep it all to
ourselves
I love Laura's lesson today
she says that look and say well you know
what Susan I'm going to take you and
Althea I'm gonna take you but Hugh you
can't jump too high I'm not gonna take
it no he says I want all of you what a
message for us God calls you his best
chance for a lost world amen
I used to love the way the kids say God
don't make no junk used to love when the
kids would say that right so Robin would
you come and close my message out with
just a little song for us
it is well with my soul
it is where
with my
it is where it is where
with my soul
that is what
[Music]
with mice
[Music]
our second reading comes from the first
book of John chapter 1 verses 1 through
10 we declared to you what was from the
beginning what we have heard what we
have seen with our eyes what we have
looked at in what we have touched with
our hands concerning the word of life
this life was revealed and we have seen
it and testify to it and declare to you
the eternal life this was with the
father and was revealed to us we declare
to you what we have seen and heard so
that you also may have fellowship with
us and truly our Fellowship is with the
father and with his son Jesus Christ we
are writing these things so that our joy
may be complete this is the message that
we have heard from him and proclaim to
you that God is light and in him there
is no darkness at all if we say that we
have fellowship with him while we are
walking in darkness we lie and do not do
what is true but if we walk in the light
as he himself is in the light we have
fellowship with one another in the blood
of Jesus his son cleanses us from all
sin if we say that we have no sin we
deceive ourselves and the truth is not
in us if we confess our sins he who is
faithful and just will forgive us of our
sins and cleanse us from all
unrighteousness if we say that we have
not sinned we make him a liar and the
word is not in us may the lord add a
rich blessing to the reading the hearing
of God's Holy Word made sing deep down
and bring forth much fruit the Word of
God for the people of God
let us pray father I am a sinner saved
by your grace and I'm grateful for my
salvation but I also know that I'm a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
this is in title when God whispers the
man whispered God speak to me and a
Meadowlark saying but the man didn't
hear it so the man yelled God speak to
me in the thunder rolled against the sky
but the man did not listen the man
looked around and says God let me see
you and a star shined bright as never
before but the man didn't see it and the
man shouted God show me a miracle and a
life was born but the man did not
attribute it to God so the man cried out
and despair touch me God and let me know
that you're here whereupon God reached
down and he touched the man but the man
brushed the butterfly away and walked on
was powerful about this story as that
sometimes that happens to us sometimes
we're looking for God and we don't find
God in the places that we're looking
sometimes God can be found in nature
sometimes God can be found in the voice
of a friend someone to encourage us
sometimes God can be found in the Word
of God scripture says for the word of
God is alive and is active sharper than
a double-edged sword it penetrates even
the dividing the soul and spirit and
joints and marrow it judges the thoughts
and the attitudes of our hearts Hebrews
4 chapter 12 but the question is are we
listening you know a great question for
us to ask ourselves and to get other
people to think about is everyday ask
the question where did I see God today
somehow it attunes us to listen more to
look for God and the Bible says that
everybody that seeks them finds him Amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the question do you want a
right relationship with God do you want
a right relationship with God before
this sermon is out I'm gonna talk to you
about how to have it and how to keep it
the background of this text John's
letter was about the basics of Christian
faith it helped his readers to reflect
honestly on their own faith journey
and it begged the question are we really
believers in Christ not just in what we
say but how we live our lives are we
true believers John told them that they
can tell by their actions if they love
one another that was evidence that God
was in their lives but if they bickered
and they fought all the time and they
were selfish and did not look out for
one another that they were portraying
what they claimed to believe and in fact
those actions prove that they didn't
know God well pastor are you saying that
John is telling us that we have to be
perfect
no John is not saying in this text that
they need to be perfect but he is saying
that we need to be believers and that
believers should be able to emit their
sins and seek God's forgiveness and
somehow John is saying that this is
essential so let me ask the question is
confession a daily part of our living is
repentance a daily part of our living
well let me tell you what I think that
confession is not confession to me is
not when we say Lord forgive me for all
the things that I've done you know use
the garbage bag effect just everything
but I think that confession is naming it
now I'm not asking you to name anything
I've got enough stuff in my life that I
need to name amen but think about it for
a minute if you just if we humbled
ourselves and said Lord I didn't offer
my best today what I asked for
forgiveness Lord I didn't keep my
promises to my family today I ask that
you helped me whatever it is if we would
just be bold and trust God it would look
a little different Jesus told the story
and he asks he said there was a Pharisee
and this was the Pharisees prayer Lord
I'm so glad that I'm not like those
people over there he said but the the
sinner just beat on his chest and said
Lord forgive me sinner Jesus asks which
prayer do you think was heard you see
we've got to come before God with a
broken contrite spirit we have to come
before God and ask God to forgive us of
our sins and we're going to talk more
about this but he says that God is
faithful and just to forgive us of our
sins and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness predicated on if if we
ask for it so this is
good the book of John first book of John
talks about love and it talks about joy
and you get this idea that is talking
about happiness what I want to tell you
that happiness and joy are different
there's too many variables when you talk
about happiness that that can change
happiness happiness can change if I'm
hungry hello happiness can change if I'm
tired not if I'm hungry and tired that's
really bad but happiness can change
based on stress happiness can change
based on whether we are lonely are you
are you getting what I'm saying but joy
is different Nehemiah 8 and 10 says the
joy of the Lord is my strength
joy is central show me someone we're
joined I'll show you someone with
strength show me someone without joy and
I'll show you someone without strength
do you have joy this morning joy is
different you could have joy in the
midst of troubles and somebody saying
were you going through a hard time what
do you mean you have joy you could have
the peace that passeth all understanding
in the midst of troubles maybe not
happiness but joy are you with me so
there is a difference
I came across this little poem and it
was talking about joy and it talks about
how to live a life of joy and it's very
simple it says pay attention be
astonished and talk about it tell
somebody about it and when I read that I
thought about you know maybe a simple
analogy is God blesses us with something
and when we get it we're excited we tell
everybody about it but in a short time
we don't talk about it anymore
sometimes our salvation is just like
that we don't talk about it anymore
it's our first love but we just don't
talk about it when I went to career with
Bishop Cho what was interesting is that
no matter where we went and people
prayed they would thank God for the
missionaries who brought the gospel to
them and then they would thank God for
salvation when was the last time you
thank God for salvation when was the
last time you thanked God for being in
your life in the great way pay attention
be astonished and talk about it this is
simple but it's profound and the reason
why it's profound is because it's
challenging it challenges us because
we're so busy sometimes we don't have
time we don't have time to pray we got
things to do we don't have time to talk
to the Lord I'll get to the Lord when I
get around to it and we've forsaken our
first love
but I like this tax a few hours before
Jesus crucifixion jesus told his
disciples these things I've spoken to
you that my joy may be in you and that
your joy might be full that's where our
strength is that's where our joy is
Galatians 5 and 22 says it this way and
the fruits of the Spirit is love and
what joy
I like this tax it's asking us the
question are we true believers not only
by what we say but by what we do and how
we treat others it's important to God
how we treat other people is important
to God he says they'll know that you're
my disciples if you love one another
somebody went to Sunday School let's
give the Lord a hand clap or praise for
that but then verses 5 just through 7
says it this way
walk in the light to walk in the light
is a metaphor so Christian metaphor but
it's often it means acting correctly or
living right what I like about walking
it talks about movement a progression of
movement it doesn't mean that we are
stagnant in the same place but that
we're moving are you with me the
question is are we growing old in Christ
are we growing up in Christ there's two
different things
we can be Benchwarmers in the church
just growing old
what are we growing up in Christ are we
maturing in Christ walk in the light
used to be a song that goes like this
walk in the light beautiful light
somewhere the dew drops of mercy shine
bright shine all around us by day and by
night Jesus the light how many of you
know that song I know Althea knows that
I heard I could see you're mouthing it
with me but it's asking us the question
are we growing
in Christ he says you can't walk in
darkness and say you walking in the
light the to just it won't match but if
we're walking in the light as he is the
light then the truth is in us then
listen to the other verse if we confess
our sins he is faithful and just to
forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us
from all unrighteousness so what sin
won't be forgiven as he says to cleanse
us from all unrighteousness but that's
what it is you want to have real joy in
your life you want to have a right
relationship with God then confession is
important not the garbage bag of fact
where we ask the Lord to forgive us for
everything we've ever done but get real
with it tell God about it and then
repentance means to turn from the
direction that we're going and to turn
towards God what I love about my son
whenever he gets in trouble now I wasn't
like this when I was a kid when I got in
trouble and my mother said come in I
took off running anybody else I was like
you gonna spank me you got to catch me
but he will come to me and say Papa I've
done something wrong and I'll say what
did it what did you do a lot of times
he'll tell me and then he'll put his
head on my chest
I didn't do that when I was young but
unlike Joshua's spiritual attitude of
wanting to get it right a wanting to be
back in the good graces
it's a wonderful model for us that God
wants to be in relationship with us and
when we mess up with us we ought to say
Lourdes me I did it again I need your
help strengthen me so that this is the
last time I do that thing that I've done
anybody know what I'm talking about
what I'm trying to say to you is if you
want real joy you want a right
relationship then confession has to be a
daily part of our living
we're sing a song this morning and I
want you to open your hymnals back to
that song and we're not gonna sing it
but I want you to hear the words I want
to walk as a child of the light '''l 206
I want to follow Jesus God set the Stars
to give light to the world the star of
my life is Jesus in him there is no
darkness at all
the night and the day are both alike the
lamb is the light of the City of God
shine in my heart Lord Jesus I want to
see the brightness of God I want to look
at Jesus clear sun of righteousness
shine on my path and show me the way to
the Father in him there is no darkness
at all the night and the day are both
alike the lamb is the light of the City
of God shine in my heart Lord Jesus I'm
looking for the coming of Christ I want
to be with Jesus when
have run with patience the race we shall
know the joy of Jesus in him there is no
darkness at all the night and the day
are both alike the lamb is the light of
the City of God shine in my heart Lord
Jesus let us pray most gracious God
thank you for your word this morning a
word to remind us to come to you with
the broken contrite spirit and in doing
so Lord we would lay our pride at your
feet lay our arrogance at your feet and
you promise Lord that if we would
confess our sins that you would be
faithful and just to forgive us of our
sins and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness Oh father I pray today
that we as your people will take a
moment to confess to you not out loud
but in our hearts and whatever it is
Lord we're going to trust you that
you've made it right so we're going to
take a moment of silent prayer just a
little talk with Jesus makes it all
right
father thank you for your word that will
go forth and it will accomplish
everything that it's set out to do I
thank you for Janet Watts this morning
and playing the organ for us and doing
it with joy as a true servant and thank
you for our choir I thank you for my son
my wife this beautiful congregation I
thank you that I get to be here at
Providence United Methodist Church
riding on the heels and the shoulders of
so many who've come before me I thank
you for loving us the way that you do to
give us an opportunity to make things
right with you and to be in right
relationship the father now I pray the
prayer that you have taught your
disciples saying our Father who are in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day
our second reading this morning is from
the book of John the twentieth chapter
verses 1 through 18 early on the first
day of the week while it was still dark
Mary Magdalene came to the tomb and saw
that the stone had been removed from the
tomb she ran and went to Simon Peter and
the other disciples the one who Jesus
loved and said to them they have taken
the Lord out of the tomb and we do not
know where they have then Peter and the
other disciples set out and went toward
the tomb the two were running together
but the other disciple outran Peter and
reached the tomb first he bent down to
look in and saw the linen wrappings
laying there but he did not go in then
Simon Peter came following him and went
into the tomb he saw the linen wrappings
laying there and the cloth that had been
on Jesus head not lying with the linen
wrappings but rolled in a place by
itself then the other disciple who
reached the tomb first also went in and
he saw and believed for as yet they did
not understand the scripture that he
must rise from the dead then the
disciples returned to their homes but
Mary stood weeping outside the tomb as
she wept she bent over to look into the
tomb and she saw two angels in white
sitting where the body of Jesus had been
laying one at the head and the other at
the feet they said to her woman why are
you weeping she said to them they have
taken away my Lord and I do not know
where they have laid him
when she had said this she turned around
and saw Jesus standing there but she did
not know that it was Jesus jesus said to
her woman why are you weeping whom are
you looking for
supposing him to be the gardener she
said to him sir if you have carried him
away tell me where you have lady and I
will take him away
jesus said to her Mary she turned and
said to him in Hebrew teacher jesus said
to her do not hold on to me because I
have not yet ascended to the Father but
go to my brothers and say to them I am
ascending to my father and your father
to my god and your God Mary Magdalene
went and announced to the disciples I
have seen the Lord and she told them
that what he had said these things to
her this is the Word of God for the
people of God Holy Spirit fall in this
place as never before
hide this preacher behind the cross that
your people might see you and not me
that they might hear you and not me that
the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with a thought the joy of
resurrection the joy of Resurrection a
little boy and his father was driving
down a country road it was a beautiful
spring afternoon suddenly out of nowhere
a bumblebee flew into the car now you
know what you some of you would have
done you would have probably wrecked the
car right since the little boy was
deathly allergic to bee stings he became
petrified but his father quickly reached
out his hand and he grabbed the bumble
bee and lightly squeezed it in his hand
and then he released it but as soon as
he let it go the young son became
frantic again as the bumble bee buzzed
by his little head his father saw the
pain stricken face of his son but once
again the father reached out his hand
and then he told his son he said look at
my hand and he pointed to it and he says
here is the stinger still in my hand you
don't have to be afraid anymore I've
taken the sting for you and here's what
I want you to hear this morning this is
the message of Easter we don't need to
be afraid about death anymore Christ has
faced death for us and his victory we
are saying how many of you can say Amen
Christ has taken the sting for each one
of us first Corinthians 15 and 22 ask
where O death is your sting Christ has
taken our state Easter is a great time
in the life of the church Easter holds
one of the tenants of our faith of being
able to raise again with Jesus that when
we die that we don't just get dope dirt
thrown on us but our spirits
we'll continue to live I came up as and
it gives us Easter in 40 words listen
love gave help came
compassion reached mercy saved Beauty
felt hope instilled burdens lifted grace
revealed the death ended the breach was
mended joy danced peace extended
curtains torn power sword freedom
breathe life was reborn he forgave truth
overcame glory rose and now light
forever reigns this is by Debi McDaniels
how powerful is that when you tell the
Easter story
what are you telling people when you
share what God has done for us what
scriptures are you using what I like
about this Johnny and passage and that
John presents us with this narrative
that's at the heart of what we will
we'll be talking about this morning
Jesus is crucified and he's been raised
but as we listen to the story Mary and
Peter and the unnamed disciple discover
that the tomb is empty but my friend
I like Sherry's lesson this morning with
the children she had an empty box and
she says it's the greatest gift ever
given the greatest gift we've ever
received how many of you believe it
how many of you know it in your heart is
the greatest gift we've ever received so
many of us we say why did Jesus have to
die I mean couldn't God come up with
another plan he was only 33 years old
there should have been another way let
me just say this to you the creator of
the universe came up with a perfect plan
so that you and I might be in fellowship
with him what I love about this Johnny
and passage is that their morning turns
in to joy I love the scripture that says
weeping indoors for a night but somebody
went to Sunday school that's pretty good
but joy comes in the morning I was
looking at this text and we've heard
this text before we've we've read this
text before every Easter we probably
hear this text before but I wondered if
we ever really talk about why
resurrection is so important why
resurrection is so important to our
faith and I'm going to share a few of
those things with you the reservoir
the resurrection witnesses to the
immense power of God himself to raised
Jesus from the dead it was God who
raised him to believe in the
resurrection is to believe in God and if
God exists and if he created the
universe and everything that's in it
then surely God should have the power
over it amen he has the power over life
and death it's in his hands and it was
God's gift to us to raised Jesus from
the dead Muhammad is dead never to live
again Buddha is dead never to live again
Jesus is the only one who lives can
somebody say Amen God is so worthy to be
praised he overcame death and removed
the sting of death the scripture says
where O death is your sting what I want
you to hear this morning is that God is
sovereign let me hear you say God has
all power
don't you forget it God has all power
notice I didn't say some power Amen but
that God has all power one of the things
that we notice in the resurrection is
that it says that Jesus is who he say he
is Jesus says that he would die and
three days he would be raised to life
that he is the son of God that he is
indeed the Messiah resurrection is the
proof that God is who he says he is
here's what I want you to hear Jesus has
the power to forgive sins not some sense
but all sins and resurrection is proof
of that power in our Christology we say
that Jesus is fully human but he's also
fully divine the resurrection of Jesus
is not only the validation of his deity
but it also validates all of the Old
Testament prophecies the prophecies for
hundreds of years was fulfilled in Jesus
resurrection somebody ought to say Amen
and we are the benefactors of that grace
remember Jesus says I am the
resurrection and I am the life Jesus is
who he says he is and then the thing I
want you to hear is that we get to share
in this resurrection when we die my
friends that's not the end for us when
your loved ones die that's not end and
one day we will be with him in glory
Jesus says fret not thyself because of
evildoers ye believe in God believe also
in me in my father's house there are
many dwelling places if it were not so I
would have told you that I go to prepare
a place for you so that where I am you
may be also he says you know the way to
the place where I'm going I will not
leave you as an often my friends there
was joy in the resurrection when we look
at this Johnny in text as I shared this
morning we have to look at it through a
lens of grief everybody's grieving the
disciples have gone back home they're
ready to start their lives again but
Mary so grateful for what Jesus had done
for you remember the story where jesus
healed her of eight demons in her life
here she comes back to the tomb not
expecting it to be open and when it was
open in her grief she didn't even go in
she just ran back and told Peter and the
disciple that Jesus love they come in an
a investigate they see that the grave
clothes are still there in other words
to prove that Jesus is not here the
grave clothes was there to prove that
Jesus had risen that the cloth was
expensive by itself
if they had taken the body they would
have taken the grave clothes one angel
at the head one angel at the foot of
Christ whenever I go into the hospital
room that's what I imagine when I'm
praying with people who are
transitioning one angel at the head and
one angel at the foot but they say to
her why are you weeping in other words
it's finished it's done everything that
he said has come to pass why are you
weeping
he's not dead he's alive she said but I
don't know where they've laid him I
don't know where my lord is just tell me
where he is and now I'll retrieve him
myself
as if she could carry the body and then
someone else says why are you weeping
who are you looking for and then Jesus
says Mary
he called her by name and immediately
she recognized that it was her teacher
notice that when he came back he didn't
appear to the men who were his disciples
he didn't appear to the chief priests or
any of them but a woman who loved him a
woman who was grateful that her sins
were forgiven he didn't come back and
appear to marry his mother but a sinner
who loved him who was grateful for all
that he had done how many of you are
grateful for all that God has done for
you Jesus came to do a great work and
what I love about this text it proves
who Jesus is it demonstrates that God
accepted Jesus sacrifice on our behalf
it shows that God has the power to raise
him from the dead and it guarantees that
our bodies would also be raised with him
lastly I want you to hear it again the
resurrection in 40 words love gave help
King compassion reached mercy saved
beauty filled Hope instilled burdens
were lifted grace was revealed death
ended the breach was mended joy dance
peace was extended the curtains were
torn down power sword freedom breathe
life was reborn he forgave truth
overcame glory rose and now light
forever reigns if you receive this
message today can you say Amen would you
close us close the sermon and the word
of Prayer let us pray
most Heavenly Father we think you want
today for your word god we thank you
most of all for your son Jesus Christ
father we thank you for the resurrection
of Christ we thank you God that he went
to the cross being obedient and died for
our sins Lord but we know that you had
the ultimate plan God and we thank you
on today father we thank you for all
those things to have gone before us and
father we thank you that we right now
will obey you and do your will according
to your will and purpose for our lives
for God will be so gracious to give you
all the glory and all the praise in
Christ's name and all of God's people
said amen
our second scripture reading is from the
book of Mark chapter 11 verses 1 through
11 when they were approaching Jerusalem
at Bethpage and Bethany near the Mount
of Olives he sent two disciples two of
his disciples and said to them go into
the village ahead of you and immediately
as you enter it you will find tied there
a coat that has never been ridden untie
it and bring it if anyone says to you
why are you doing this just say this the
Lord needs it and will send it back here
immediately they went away and found a
Colt tied near a door outside in the
street as they were untying it some of
the bystanders said to them what are you
doing untying the colt
they told them what Jesus had said and
they allowed them to take it then they
brought the coat to Jesus and threw
their cloaks on it and he sat on it
many people spread their cloaks on the
road and others spread leafy branches
that they had cut in the fields then
those who went ahead and those who
followed were shouting Hosanna blessed
is the one who comes in the name of the
Lord blessed is the coming kingdom of
our ancestor David hosanna in the
highest heaven then he entered Jerusalem
and went into the temple and when he had
looked around at everything as it was
already late he went out to Bethany with
the twelve this is the word of God for
the people of God
let us pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and I am grateful I am a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought it's not the
end but a new beginning it's not the end
but a new beginning listen to this word
that comes from the book of Malachi but
for you who fear my name the Sun of
righteousness will rise with healing in
his wings and you will go free leaping
with joy like the Klatte the calves let
out the pasture on that day when I act
you will tread upon the wicked as though
it was dust upon your feet so for 400
years God's people live with this
expectation that Jesus is coming he's
coming the prophets have said it but
when I read the scripture I love looking
at the places where God just breaks in
in human history and he always does
something wonderful incredible
miraculous God always moves with
excellence
listen to Genesis 1 in the beginning God
created the heavens and the earth and
the earth was formed and empty darkness
was over the surface of the deep and the
Spirit of God was hovering over the
waters what I love about it is that's
not the end of the story and God said
let there be light and there was light
God saw that the light was good and he
separated the light from the darkness
darkness was not the end but it was a
beginning I don't know what you're going
through the day but I hope that you hear
my referring this morning and that is no
matter what you're going through it's
not the end it's the beginning it's an
opportunity for God to step in and to do
something that's never been done before
will you give it to him whatever it is
will you trust him for it
every time I read the scripture I see
where God just breaks in in human
history
and he does something incredible you
know the story of Noah and God sent the
flood and sort of wipes out the earth
and Noah's in the ark with all the
animals and his family but it wasn't the
end was it he said a rainbow to give his
people a promise that he would never do
it again
but it was the beginning of something
special it was the beginning for human
kind it was not the end no matter what
you're going through you know the enemy
has a way of telling you you'll never
get through it this is it you're so far
in debt you'll never get out of debt
your marriage is over the enemy has a
way of doing that and sometimes we give
an ear to it and for some you've been
divorced
and you think that that's the worst
thing that could have happened to you
but I want you to hear the message today
it's not the end it's about a new
beginning amen the Lord said to Abram
leave your country your people and your
father's household and go to the land
that I will show you and I will make you
a great nation and I will bless you and
I will make your name great and you will
be a blessing and I will bless those who
bless you and I will curse those who
curse you God was saying there's a
better life I'm gonna show it to you
trust me for it
go out there and get it it's waiting on
you
perhaps Abraham may have thought this is
where I was born and raised this is my
father's home it's the end but truly it
was the beginning if you look at the
life of Moses and and God using Moses to
to set his people free through plagues
and diseases and through disaster he
comes down into human history and parts
the water so that they could walk on dry
land somebody ought to say amen but it
wasn't the end it was the beginning of
something new then you look at the life
of Joshua moving God's people into the
Promised Land full of promises
provisions and blessings it was a new
beginning and that's what I love about
God whenever God shows up something
great can happen even when we don't
think it can God can do it God can do it
in your life he can do it in the life of
your family now I know there are some
doubters and you say
well you don't know my family we've got
so much dysfunction I'm not sure God
will Reva want to mess with that God can
do it there's dysfunction in every
family hello I said every family not
some families and every family was even
dysfunction in Jesus family and if you
want me to share some stories with you
about that I would love to but one of
them you remember when his mother wanted
him to turn the water into wine he said
this is not my hour that was one area of
dysfunction but it's in every family
what I love about the Gospel of Mark is
that he starts with his announcement of
a new beginning for over 400 years they
waited an expectation that this Jesus
this Messiah is coming he's here
everything that we have hoped for that
we've been praying for that the prophets
have told us is happening now he's here
and Jesus performed these miraculous
signs he he drove out the evil spirits
He healed people people who were
paralyzed he He healed people who had
leprosy he gave sight to the blind he
calmed stormy seas raised people from
the dead this is the one he's the
anointed one he is the one that we've
been waiting for and so here is the time
now is the time for salvation so Palm
Sunday is not the end but it's a new
beginning
what is Palm Sunday you've heard it read
in your hearing it's the day that we
celebrate the triumphal entry into
Jerusalem one week before the res
action Palm Sunday was not the end but
it was the beginning and as Jesus
entered the holy city he neared the
culmination of a long journey towards
gal Gotha he had come to save the loss
and now was the time this would be the
place to secure our salvation amen
Palm Sunday it's not the end but it's
the beginning Palm Sunday marked the
start of what we often call Passion Week
the final seven days of Jesus life on
Earth Palm Sunday it's not the end but
it's the beginning what I love about
this story is if you look at it it's
almost like rolling out the red carpet
because they recognize that he is the
Messiah
so they they lined the streets with palm
branches and they laid their coats out
and before that Jesus tell two of its
disciples to go and get this Duncan
you'll find him tied up and they go and
they find the donkey tied but he told
them if somebody's asked you just say
the Lord has need of it now get this in
your mind he wants me to go into town
and and get somebody's donkey ain't
supposed to touch somebody's donkey but
I'm supposed to get this dunkey and then
when they ask me about it I'm supposed
to tell him the Lord has need of it is
is that gonna suffice I don't know but
they go and they find this donkey just
as Jesus said and when someone asked
them they say the Lord has need of it
and we'll bring it back when we're done
and the person says
go right ahead now you know this was
spiritual right because in real life we
wouldn't give up our mode of
transportation but this is a great honor
if you go and you look in second Kings
chapter 9 you'll find that this was sort
of the celebration or rolling out the
red carpet for King J who and this is
what they're doing for Jesus and he's
coming into town and they're waving the
prom balances and they're saying Hosanna
and the highest blessed is he who comes
in the name of the Lord hosanna in the
highest
but what I want you to hear is that it
didn't last the same week and the same
people who are saying Hosanna blessed is
he who comes in the name of the Lord by
the end of the week they're yelling
crucify him no cross no crown let me
hear you say that no cross no crown
that's why when Jesus approached
Jerusalem and he saw the city says he
wept over the city it hears what he says
if you even you had only known on this
day what would bring you peace but now
it's hidden from your eyes the days will
come upon you when your enemies will not
leave one stone unturned because you did
not recognize the time of God's coming
Jesus is saying here's the tragedy you
say you know who the Messiah is but you
don't even recognize him for who he is
you look
for somebody to come into to make things
right
politically nationally culturally but
Jesus says but I came to bless you
spiritually I'm the one to bring
salvation to God's people Jesus didn't
get involved in all of that political
stuff like we do hello
it doesn't matter to to Jesus who's in
office and who's not but Jesus is saying
does my people have a relationship with
the father do they know that God has put
this in place for them do they
understand that this is why I've come so
that they might have life and life
everlasting sometimes my friends even in
the church were focused on the wrong
things and Jesus is saying maybe we
ought to get that right maybe we ought
to understand that the spiritual part of
our sister the greatest part of us what
I love about this story is that when God
shows up great things can happen look at
your own life tract God's record in your
own families history and you'll see how
God has blessed you
Peter Gomes a theologian from Harvard he
says you know the end of the story of
Palm Sunday and passion story and the
passion Sunday has always been troubling
it's been troubling to us because we
want a good story with a good ending and
so when we think of the execution of
Jesus be
Crucified we said that's not a good
ending that's not uplifting but can I
say it till you won once again no cross
somebody went to Sunday School praise
God for it one of our bishops will will
Amon said that out in front of his
church they had three crosses and the it
was during Lent just like we have out
here and and people began to call and
complain that it was an ugly sight why
do y'all do this every year they just
didn't understand no cross no crown in
Newsweek there was an article about the
other Jesus how other people viewed it
and one person's view of Jesus he says
this Islam regards Jesus as a great
prophet but his crucifixion crucifixion
is an insult to Allah they missed it
they missed that this was God's plan now
it may not be your plan it may not be my
plan but it's the creator's plan to send
Jesus so he might die that we might have
everlasting life
another one said that there's a Buddhist
monk said it this way the figure of a
crucified Christ is just too painful to
talk about
I don't really like talking about a
Christ that's vulnerable they missed it
they missed it this is God's almighty
plan any beginning was the word and the
Word was with God and the Word was God
in the beginning all things were made
through him Jesus was with the Father in
heaven
now in verse 14 it says and he became
flesh and dwelt among us it's the
father's perfect plan he will become the
Lamb that takes away the sins of the
world it's God's perfect plan I like
what Peter ghom says he says that's one
way to look at it that Jesus is
vulnerable that's one way to look at
conflict suffering and pain but from a
Christian perspective you got to add
love in it it was God's love that sent
him it was God's love that Jesus would
bear it for us
and Peter gollum says that's why we
should share it because it's God's love
so when we talk about Palm Sunday when
we talk about passion Sunday don't
forget to talk about God's love amen
that it was God's perfect plan for you
and I I was listening to this song I'm
gonna ask if Allison would start it for
us and we're just gonna sing just the
first part of it and many of you know
this song give thanks
let us just sing it and listen to the
words as we sing it
[Music]
get thanked with a great
[Music]
and now let the weak say I am strong let
the poor say I am rich because of what
the Lord has done for us
Isaac would you come and lead us in a
prayer let us pray
most Heavenly Father we thank you on
this morning for your word your word
that has touched each and every heart
Lord for because of your son Jesus
Christ we can say that we are rich
because of your son Jesus Christ as you
sent to die for our sins Lord and our
transgressions we say thank you this
morning and Lord we know that we want
your will to be done in our lives and we
say yes Lord to your will yes Lord to
your way continue to guide our steps
Lord according to your will and purpose
for each and every life and God we thank
you for what you're doing for you know
that we you stand Lord in the midst of
each and every trial and tribulation
that we may go through you are there
with us but we are not alone but we can
do nothing without you lord give us the
strength Lord to walk before you give us
the strength Lord to go through whatever
it is that we have to go through and we
will be so mindful to give you the
praise and all of the glory for God we
thank you for that prayer that Jesus
taught his disciples to pray when he
said our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom the power and the glory forever
amen
our second reading this morning is from
the book of John chapter 12 verses 20
through 33 nah among those who went up
to worship at the festival were some
Greeks they came to Philip who was from
Bethsaida in Galilee and said to him sir
we wish to see Jesus
Philip went and told Andrew and Andrew
and Philip went and told Jesus jesus
answered them the hour has come for the
Son of man to be glorified very truly I
tell you unless a grain of wheat falls
into the earth and dies it remains just
a single grain but if it dies it bears
much fruit those who love their life
lose it and those who hate their life in
this world will keep it for eternal life
whoever serves me must follow me and
where I am there where my servant be
also whoever serves me the father will
honor now my soul is trouble and what
should I say father save me from this
hour no it is for this reason that I
have come to this hour
father glorify your name then a voice
came from heaven I have glorified it and
I will glorify it again the crowd
standing there heard it and said that it
was thunder others said an angel has
spoken to him jesus answered this voice
has come for your sake not for mine
now is the judgment of this world now
the ruler of this world will be driven
out and I when I am lifted up from the
earth will draw all people to myself he
this to indicate the kind of death he
was to die this is the Word of God for
the people of God let us pray most
gracious God I'm a sinner saved by your
grace and I'm truly grateful but I know
that I'm a broken vessel but all you
have to do is say the word and I shall
be healed long enough to do your work
and to do your will hide this preacher
behind the cross that your people might
see you were not me that they might hear
you and not me let the words of my mouth
and the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
years ago I came across this story and
I'd like to read it again and share it
with you this was the days when folks
went to the drive-in movies how many of
you been to a drive-in movie just raise
your hand maybe one or two of you been
I'm just teasing and this husband and
wife decided that they would pay for one
person the other one would hide in the
trunk and once they got inside then they
would release the other and they would
enjoy the movie but only paying once
thus they would be obeying the 11th
commandment y'all know what the 11th
commandment is thou shalt not get caught
and it sound like a good plan in theory
she drove through pay for one ticket
they got inside she got out to unlock
the trunk but the keys to the trunk was
in the man's pocket who was inside the
trunk it sounded like a good plan how
many of you want to know what happened
after the fire department came and they
had to cut him out of the trunk neither
he nor his wife got to see the movie and
I can imagine the fine that they had to
pay but it sound like a good plan how
many of you ever had a a good plan that
it didn't work out I really don't know
that this was really a good plan or that
he could call it a good plan for the
intent was to deceive and to watch a
movie of someone else's expense however
this morning I came to tell you that God
has a good plan amen and that good plan
is to send Jesus so that he might die
that we might be in relationship with
him it's the father's planned it's a
good plan came across another story of
an elderly contractor and he decided it
was time for him to retire anybody could
understand where he is and he thought
maybe I spend some more time with my
wife and we have extended family I want
to do that and so he went to his
employer and he told the employer it was
time and he
says I'm I'm sorry but I know that you
can get along without me and the
employer said okay I understand but I
want you to build me one last house do
it as a favor to me and the man said
okay however as he started to build the
house he began to do shoddy work he
began to use cheaper materials cutting
corners what a way to end such a
dedicated career and when his boss came
to inspect the house he noticed these
things but he said to the contractor
here are the keys to the front door and
he says why are you giving me the keys
to the front door he said because I
wanted you to build your own house and
I'm giving this to you as a gift
let me ask a question if the man had
known he was building his own house do
you think he would have put in shoddy
work he would have aleut use cheaper
materials I think not but we're building
our own house and sometimes we don't put
our best into our own house amen and
then we say you know what I got to live
in this house I'm talking about having a
good spiritual attitude I'm talking
about trusting God when the bottom falls
out I'm not talking about when
everything is going well that's when
it's easy to serve but
the bottom falls out when we are
perplexed on all sides can we trust him
you see we build our house every day
with that we live put up a board here a
few nails we're not going to use
everything that we need and we just
build this house but it's the house that
we have to live in any architect knows
that a solid foundation is essential to
building and once the foundation is laid
supports are put in permitting the rest
of the structure to be built listen
Jesus put it this way and Luke 6 verses
47 through 49 I will show you what it's
like when someone comes to me listens to
my teaching and follow it it is like a
person building a house who digs deep
and lays the foundation on solid rock
when the floods rise and it breaks
against the house it stands firm because
it was well built but anyone who hears
and does not obey it's like a person who
built this house right on the ground
without a foundation and when the flood
sweeps down against that house it will
collapse into a heap of ruins as follows
followers of Christ our spiritual
foundation is vital both here on earth
and in heaven
my question this morning is are we ready
submit all of our life to Him not just
part of our life you know the parts that
we want ceases
Jesus to see I'm talking about every
aspect of our lives
are we ready to submit that to the Lord
are we I got two yeses some of you are
still thinking about it
are you ready to build your house on a
solid foundation solid foundation God's
plan for creation is good the goal for
which is Institute it it comes from the
highest good it is good in a functional
sense because we know that God's plan
will work because God is in charge when
I begin to look at this text I had to go
and look at what came before it and what
came before in chapter 11 is Jesus
raised Lazarus from the dead and no
sooner than he raised Lazarus from the
dead scripture says that the high
priests plotted to take his life why did
they plot to take his life because
Greeks and other Jews began to follow
Jesus they left their traditions to
follow Jesus and then we come to chapter
12 and it opens with the story of Mary
anointing Jesus and Lazarus home Jesus
says it was done for his burial but let
me let you hear it for yourself the
multitudes gathered and when he called
Lazarus out of the tomb and he
raised them from the dead they went on
testifying about it for this cause also
the multitudes went with him and because
of the signs that he had done the
Pharisees therefore said among
themselves
see how he accomplished how we
accomplished nothing
behold the world has gone out after him
listen to that statement and the world
has gone out after him and they
basically said we got to do something
about this I personally think that they
was probably saying well we need to get
rid of Jesus and Lazarus but something
has to be done and now it comes to our
tax that some Greeks among them came to
worship at the festival they came to
Philip who was from Bethsaida in Galilee
with the requests sir they said we want
to see Jesus
Philip went to tell Andrew Andrew told
Jesus but notice Jesus response Jesus
didn't say just bring them in where are
they let me go to them but it was almost
like them coming was a signal and he
replies this way the hour has come for
the Son of Man god bless you to be
glorified very truly I tell you unless a
kernel of wheat falls into the ground
and it dies it remains only a single
seed but if it dies it produces much
fruit anyone who loves their life will
lose it while anyone who hates their
lives in this world will keep it for
eternal life whoever serves me must
follow me and where I am my servant will
also be and the father
will honor those who served me I was
thinking what is it that needs to die in
us in order for us to better serve God
the Father and I thought about
selfishness we've all experienced it in
some way but selfishness can destroy you
see true living begins what sacrifice
living God's Way not our own way and
selfishness can get in the way of that
Jesus taught that selfishness destroys
it destroys relationship because people
who are selfish
they will manipulate they will do
whatever they have to do to get their
own way how many of you know what I'm
talking about selfish people are
unrealistic
they hold people to a higher expectation
they wear people out selfish people
can't take constructive criticism but
they constantly criticize others I wish
somebody was listening to me this
morning selfish people make their love
conditional I'll do this for you fu are
you with me you get it and Jesus is
saying that self / servation is
destructive but self-sacrifice is really
living you know the world that we live
in people want what they want they
God to be sort of a cosmic bellhop if
you will we want to treat Christianity
like we go to Burger King have it your
own way and we say things like this is
my life
I want to do my own thing but as
Christians our lives are not in our own
hands
even in a limited way we have to do it
God's Way we look across the
denominations and we find that there's a
lack of attendance in church and we
think that we're competing against
sports teams and all of these other
things I think that we are competing
against a mental attitude this is my
life I want to do it my way
there's no surrendering no surrendering
I like the way the Apostle Paul puts it
he says when I was a child
I talked like a child I thought like a
child I act like a child but when I
became a man I put away childish things
Paul is saying the time has come to grow
up amen
the time is for us to not be so petty
you know there folks who if we don't do
it exactly the way they want to do it
then they take they ball and they go
home it's petty it should be about Jesus
Christ it should be about serving him
because of what he's done for us and
then the scripture came with this
paradox of glory through shame in John
chapter 12 verses 23 Jesus announced the
hour has come that the Son of man should
be glorified glorified means magnified
and honored and yet Jesus must take a
dark path in order to get there we can't
get to Easter without Good Friday we can
get to the resurrection and ascension
without Good Friday it's a dog path but
here's what I want you to hear Jesus
says it this way he has no regrets now
my soul is troubling what should I say
father save me from this hour no it was
for this very reason that I've come
father glorify your name in other words
Jesus saying I don't have any regrets
some of us we like to push the reset
button we want to do over how many of
you want to do over sometimes you wish
you had done it a little differently and
we say if I had more life to live I do
this a little different but Jesus says I
have no regrets if this is the Father's
will then that's the path that I want to
take you know sometimes in our church we
live the Christian life until we're
tested until we're challenged until we
are perplexed on all sides when our
faith meets the road of challenge when
God asked us some to do the hard thing
that's when we say you know what
Providence I'm not sure I want to be
here y'all and we come up with petty
stuff of why we want to leave because
God is asking us to do
the hard thing what I love about Jesus
if there's no regrets fathers this be
your will then let it be done what a
great lesson it is for us to obey the
father and notice what happens once
Jesus obeys and he says father glorify
your name
then comes validation says then a voice
came from heaven
I've glorified it and I will glorify it
again
the crowds heard it God makes his voice
know what if we had the same mindset
just to obey how many of you know that
he'll validate you if you do it God's
Way God will bless he promises to bless
Jesus is our example when they heard god
boy some said it must have been done
thunder some said maybe the angels were
speaking and then Jesus told them you're
gonna have the light for a little while
but work while it's day four night will
come when no one can work walk while you
have the light before the darkness
overtakes you whoever walks in darkness
doesn't know where they're going
believe in the light Jesus says I am the
light of the world I am friends here's
what I want you to hear I'm gonna read
this passage in Luke one more time I
will show you what it's like when
someone comes to me listens to my
teaching
and then follow it it is like a person
building a house who digs deep and lays
the foundation on solid rock when the
floodwaters rise and break against the
house it will stand firm because it's
well-built but anyone who hears and does
not obey as a person who builds right on
the ground without a foundation and when
the floods sweep down the house will
collapse into a heap of ruins Jesus is
saying I am the light of the world do
you trust me Isaac would you come and
lead us in a prayer let us pray
what's gracious god we thank you this
morning for your word and father we
thank you God that we died to ourself
Lord that you may live in us that your
glory may be seen through us father that
we died to ourself for heavenly father
that your will be done in our lives and
not our will and father we thank you
that you continue to move mightily in
each and every life god help us Lord
when we get in that place of struggle
Lord that place where we think that
you're not there but you said I would
never leave you nor forsake you but we
know that you always be there for god
help us in our unbelief father when we
struggle to believe the things that we
think are impossible with Bible says
that there's nothing too hard for you
God and father we just thank you on
today that we get this word in our
spirit Lord that it may move what's Lord
to be more mature in you and God we
thank you this morning for that prayer
that you taught your disciples to pray
when you told them our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom the power and the glory forever
our scripture reading this morning is
from the book of Exodus chapter 20
verses 1 through 17 then God spoke all
these words I am the Lord your God who
brought you out of the land of Egypt out
of the house of slavery you shall have
no other gods before me
you should not make for yourself an idol
whether in the form of anything that is
in heaven above or that is on the earth
beneath or that is in the water under
the earth
you should not bow down to them or
worship them for I the Lord your God am
a jealous God punishing children for the
iniquity of two the third and fourth
generation of those who reject me but
showing steadfast love to the thousandth
generation of those who love me and keep
my Commandments you shall not make
wrongful use of the name of the Lord
your God for the Lord will not acquaint
anyone who misuse his name remember the
Sabbath day and keep it holy six days
you shall labor and do all your work but
the seventh day is the Sabbath to the
Lord your God you should not do any work
you your son or your daughter your male
or female slave your livestock or the
alien resident in your towns for in the
six days the Lord made heaven and earth
the sea and all that is in them but
rested the seventh day therefore the
Lord blessed the Sabbath day and
consecrated it honor your father and
your mother so that your days may be
long in the land that the Lord your God
is giving you you shall not murder you
shall not commit adultery
you shall not steal you shall not bear
false witness against your neighbor you
shall not covet your neighbor's house
you shall not covet your neighbor's wife
or male or female slave or ox or donkey
or anything that belongs to your
neighbor this is the Word of God for the
people of God let us pray most gracious
God I'm a sinner saved by your grace and
I'm so grateful but Lord I'm still
broken but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words in my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name we pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought what principles
are you living by what principles are
you living by I don't know if you have
been affected but a loved Reverend Billy
Graham and he's gone on to be with the
Lord but as I was reflecting upon his
funeral and all the different things I
came up with two stories
that's so fitting for where we're headed
this morning but the one is a true story
of Billy Graham woods in a small town
and he was going to preach there but he
had a letter that he wanted to mail and
the great evangelist that he is he said
to the young man he says look I'm going
to be preaching later at that church and
I'm gonna tell people how they can get
to heaven I sure would like to have you
come the little boy says no I don't
think so Billy Graham
but I'm gonna be teaching people how to
get to heaven the little boy says you
don't even know how to get to the post
office true story it was on another
occasion that Billy Graham did a
interview and it was entitled the ten
commandments are still relevant it went
something like this
the gentleman says why do preachers like
you try to get people to follow
something like the ten commandments
which are thousands of years old and so
outdated we live in a different world
now and we need to make up our own rules
for living sometimes it pays to know who
you're talking to amen here's Billy
Graham's response God gave us the Ten
Commandments simply because He loves us
and he wants us to live good lives lives
that are peaceful happy productive and
prosperous God isn't a harsh judge just
waiting for us to fall out of line so
that he can punish us but he's our
loving Heavenly Father who who knows
what's best for us I can't but help but
wonder if you've actually read the Ten
Commandments you'll find them in the Old
Testament and Exodus 20 or in
Deuteronomy chapter 5 but if so which
ones would you throw out would you
the commandment against murder stealing
lying or being unfaithful
would you really toss out the command to
take care of our health our environment
by allowing for sufficient rest would
you really
omit the commandment against greed and
neglect of our elderly especially your
own parents then boldly Graham said I
seriously doubt that you would abandon
any of them because you know to do so
there would be utter chaos however I
suspect your real problem with the Ten
Commandments or any other moral law in
the Bible is that you simply want to run
your own life apart from God but let me
let me ask you based on what I've shared
with you do you think that's wise and in
closing Graham said God made you and he
knows what's best for you why deceive
yourself by thinking that you're wiser
than God the first commandment declares
you shall have no other gods before me
and the article ends there but when I
read that I said man that was a
spiritual spanking anybody ever had a
spiritual spanking it sure pays to know
who you're talking to but I loved dr.
Graham's response that God gave us the
Ten Commandments because He loves us and
he wants
us to have good lives lives that are
prosperous peaceful productive do we
really think we're wiser than the
creator of the world came across this
story by Reverend Bob deffenbaugh and he
says his friend John stopped by his
house and he was in a pickup truck he
noticed that the bracket was broken on
the truck causing the tailpipe to rattle
against the frame having obtained an
electric welder which he loved having it
and was looking for an excuse to use he
offered to fix the bracket John seemed
grateful for my offer and I set out to
weld the broken piece but the task was
not easy the position of the bracket and
the break in my inexperience and lack of
skill made the repair difficult as I
proceeded to blunder my friend tried to
look impressed and appreciative but at
some point I stopped and I said John do
you know anything about welding and John
said I know a little took the mask off
and hand it to him and handed him the
torch and I suddenly recalled with
considerable embarrassment that John had
been a teacher of the Industrial Arts he
not only knew how to weld but how to
teach others how to weld it's easy for
us to think that we're better than we
really are my friends
the Jews whom God had given the law
along with the promises of being a great
nation in this great blessing thought
that they were better than others while
Moses is up receiving the Ten
Commandments they're down partying
having a good old time living life as if
they had no God as if God had not
delivered them the Ten Commandments is
God's standard of how we are to live the
Ten Commandments purpose is to teach the
truth which should turn the Israelites
from their arrogance to humility from
self-congratulation to heartfelt worship
the Ten Commandments was given to bring
the Israelites back to reality
living their life during their own thing
but when I read the scriptures I'm
always looking for a gold nugget in the
scriptures and it's hard to look at the
scriptures even in a situation like this
and not see the love of God that God
wants to be in relationship with his
people and find ways to do that even
when we're hard-headed hello even when
we're so desirous and just doing things
our way that God continues to speak to
us in the cohort ative do this so that I
might bless you God wants to bless us he
wants us to have everything that we need
theologians would say that this is the
Decalogue which is which are the ten
laws in the Bible given to God shortly
after the Exodus the Ten Commandments as
a summary 613 commandments in the Old
Testament law the first four are about
being in relationship to God
in the last six deal with our
relationship to one another let's listen
to him
you shall have no other gods before me
you shall
not make for yourself an idol do not
take the Lord's name in vain
remember the Sabbath and keep it holy
and now to be in relationship with one
another honor your mother and your
father you should not murder you should
not commit adultery you should not steal
you should not give false testimony
against your neighbour and you should
not cover it your neighbor's house
the ten commandments are powerful for us
if we would just listen there many
people who mistakenly looked at the Ten
Commandments as a set of rules just to
be followed but I think the Ten
Commandments are about a covenant about
a relationship with God
remember the Ten Commandments as God's
standard for how we live it was given to
the Israelite people to teach them the
truth and the turn that Israelites from
arrogance to humility from
congratulation to heartfelt worship you
know when I think about the Ten
Commandments I think about us
seeing how holy God is but sometimes
it's not until we get in touch with our
own sinfulness that we can see how holy
God is are you with me
this holy God wants to be in
relationship with you and I and so he
summarizes all the laws and he gives
them to us Newsweek did a poll and the
poll was to show that 49% of all
Protestants 44% percent of all Catholics
could only name four of the Ten
Commandments it's like we've left it
back here somewhere you're maybe we've
learned him when we were young and and
maybe we think like that that man
speaking to Billy Graham
it's thousands of years old it's
outdated it's a different time now
maybe we should come up with our own
rules for living god forbid in my house
growing up we had rules we had a lot of
rules a lot of rules the Marine Corps
was easy because I had a lot of rules at
home
amen but when you come inside the house
you wash your hands anybody know that
one don't you look in my pot without
washing your hands you take your hat off
yes ma'am no sir that's how you talk to
adults you did your chores but I can
remember one time I don't know what I
did well maybe I don't really want to
tell you what I did but my mother was so
annoyed at me I was expecting her to
spank me do something you know punish me
in some way and my mother looked at me
and she says I know what to do for you
she scared me I know what to do for you
I think she had a PhD in psychology I
think that God gives that to parents a
PhD in psychology so she says I know
what to do for you and she began to walk
away walking toward the kitchen I got
scared I wanted to know what she was
gonna do so I went behind I'm following
behind her and she picked up the phone
and I saw the first few numbers that she
was dialing she was dialing my
grandmother oh my gracious I jumped on
the floor I grabbed her leg I said mommy
please don't call grandma please don't
call her nope I'm dialing the number I'm
crying I don't want her to call my
grandmother my grandmother is not going
to spank me she's going to sigh on me
anybody know what I'm talking about and
this is Howard when my mother's on the
phone she says mm-hmm and Thelma he did
such-and-such yes you want to talk to
him and she holds the
phone out like that I'm already crying
yes ma'am
and grandma goes grandma so disappointed
in you
don't be disappointed to be and for five
minutes she had to tell me how she was
disappointed in me but I didn't want my
grandmother to be disappointed that
should be our relationship with our
Heavenly Father amen
that we should want to do the things
that God wants us to do because He loves
us listen to wit
Billy Graham says he gaves us he gave us
the Ten Commandments because He loves us
he wants us to live good lives lives
that are peacefully happy and productive
and prosperous
we don't serve an angry judgmental God
who's just waiting for us to fall out of
line so he can punish us that's not the
God that we serve but he's a loving
Heavenly Father who knows what's best
for us my friends when we mess up all we
have to do is pray scripture says that
if we can
our sins he's faithful and just to
forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us
from all unrighteousness predicated on
if we confess here's what I want you to
hear more than anything else that you
heard today God loves you he wants to be
in relationship with you and no matter
what you've done
God's ready to forgive us and he wants
us to start on a new path when we talk
about the 10 commandments let's not talk
about judgment but let's talk about
grace let's talk about the love of God
that a holy God wants to be in
relationship with a sinful people amen
that's the beauty of God's message and I
pray you here today
maybe when you're at lunch today you'll
talk about the grace of God and see the
10 commandments as the love of God in
the grace of God Isaac would you come
and lead us in the word of Prayer
let us pray let's Heavenly Father we
thank you on today for your word for God
we thank you for our relationship with
you that you want to be in relationship
with us lord help our lives Lord that we
live our lives and give you glory Lord
father that we may touch others and help
others Lord along the journey and father
we thank you for everything that you're
doing and each and every person's life
we pray right now Lord that you would
continue to bring us to a level of
maturity Lord and a deeper relationship
with you but we thank you God and we
love you with all of our hearts father
help us to lean not unto our own
understanding but in all of our ways to
trust in you with all of our hearts
force in Christ's name we pray amen
our second scripture reading comes from
the book of Mark chapter 8 verses 31
through 38 said then he began to teach
them that the Son of Man must undergo
great suffering and be rejected by the
elders the chief priests and the scribes
and be killed and after three days rise
again he said all this quite openly and
Peter took him aside and began to rebuke
him but turning and looking at his
disciples he rebuked Peter and said get
thee behind me Satan but you are setting
your mind not on divine things but on
human things he called the crowd with
his disciples and said to them if any
want to become my followers let them
deny themselves and take up their cross
and follow me
for those who want to save their life
will lose it and those who lose their
life for my sake and for the sake of the
gospel will say that for what will it
profit them to gain the whole world and
forfeit their life indeed what can they
give in return for their life those who
are ashamed of me and of my words in
this adulterous and sinful generation of
them the son of man will also be ashamed
when he comes in the glory of his father
with the Holy Angels the word of God for
the people of God let us pray most
gracious God I am a sinner saved by your
grace and I'm so grateful for that but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not need that
they might he
you and not me let the words of my mouth
and the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
when I say over the top as it relates to
Bo Jackson how many of you know what I'm
talking about I see a few hands went up
bo Jackson was in a Connick collegiate
football player and in 1982 the play
involved this famous Heisman Trophy
winner bo Jackson and it proved to be
the deciding factor in the game between
the Auburn Tigers and the Alabama
Crimson Tide's the over-the-top refers
to the nature of the play imagine with
me that Coach die calls for a huddle and
he says we're down what are we going to
do and Bo Jackson says coach I was a
seven-foot high jumper in high school
why don't we go over the top you mean
jump over the top yeah I'll jump over a
man I'll jump over the top you mean over
the top of him could you imagine this
going on yes give me the ball and I'm
gonna jump over the top they gave him
the ball
bo Jackson jumped over the top had never
been heard of before this probably
hadn't been done in this fashion but it
lets us know that the word impossible
means it just hasn't been done yet
well now it's been done Bo Jackson did
it and he led his team well in this
marquee and text that was just read and
you're hearing
I imagine Jesus calling his disciples to
a huddle they're walking along for a
little while and he and he says come
gather round I need to talk to you this
is what's going to happen I'm gonna be
handed over to the chief chief priests
and scribes and they're gonna beat me
they're gonna whip me and they're gonna
take my life but on the third day I'm
gonna rise again and then Peter Peter
says what are you talking about you
can't do that I mean Peter is trying to
rebuke Jesus no we're not gonna have
that Jesus you're not dying how can we
do this
without you we need you what are you
talking about and Jesus says to Peter
get thee behind me Satan for you got
your mind on earthly things but maybe
you need to put your mind on spiritual
things let me ask a question do we
always see things from a human
perspective some of your saying well I'm
a human being that's the only
perspective I have but we can see things
by faith and we can see the spiritual
some of us
missing out or so many blessings because
we see just with the carnal mind just
with the earthly mind and we don't see
any higher than that
and in this text Jesus is trying to lift
Peter up a bit Peter if you would just
raise your level of faith you could see
what God is doing here
Kim Cavanaugh puts it this way she says
when you think about the human
perspective it's like being in a
submarine under water and maybe you look
out one of the portholes and all you see
is darkness that's your perspective but
God is like the periscope on the
submarine he knows where it's been and
he knows where it's going Jesus is
trying to elevate Peters perspective let
me ask a question do you need your
perspective elevate it some folks are
going through physical difficulties but
they only see it from a carnal mind some
their marriages are struggling some are
single and still struggling but you only
see it from a physical mind you don't
see what God can do how many of you know
that if you pray that God can even move
the tangible anybody some of us looking
at debt and we only see it from a
physical mind because we don't think
that God can do anything spiritual with
our situation this is where Peter was
I'm asking this morning are you in the
same place
Jesus is alluding to the fact Peter if
you knew who he was really talking to
you might say something different God is
infinite and God is not finite like we
are it simply means that God exists
outside and is not limited to time or
space and when we say infinite as it
relates to God it means that God is
without limits
sometimes we theologians can refer to
God as omniscient all-knowing omnipotent
all-powerful omnipresent that the Spirit
of God is everywhere amen God is
infinite what he was trying to do was to
raise Peters level of understanding
Jesus gathered them in a huddle and he
says this is what's going to happen to
me and besides that Jesus says to them
this is really about you becoming a
disciple it means that you're going to
have to deny yourself deny your own way
of doing things and you're gonna have to
do it my way now in this scripture would
really be hard for my mom because in my
household you just did what my mother
told you to do and that was it anybody
know what I'm talking about it was her
way or the highway Jesus is saying you
got to do it my way
and what does it benefit you again if
you gain the whole world but lost your
soul in
thing worth more than your soul if any
of you are ashamed of me
in my message then I'll be shame of you
when I come back in my glory Jesus is
saying it's going to get messy where
we're headed it's gonna get messy it's
not going to be easy it's gonna get
messy but he's asking the question are
you with me are you with me this is a
good question for us this morning you
know what's really so interesting about
this text is that we had seven eight
chapters before we we learn about the
mission jesus promised his true identity
his authority we learn about his
promises even the demons said that he is
the son of God we we get that from
Mark's text but there was a shift in the
shift in this text is that in those
eight chapters before we don't hear
about Jesus impending death we don't
hear that he's he's going to die let me
just say to you that if we look at mark
chapter eight verse 27
Jesus had another huddle with his
disciples and he says who do men say I
am and some of the disciples said some
say John some say Elijah and some say a
prophet now we can get that based on how
Jesus moved and operated but Peter says
you are the Christ and Jesus says to
Peter
you got it right only that could have
been revealed to you by the father and
now we move to chapter 9 and Peter is
trying to rebuke Jesus he just called
him the Christ and now he's rebuking him
perhaps Peter thought that the Christ
would come in would restore the nation
of Israel would restore his people would
bring about peace in a different kind of
way that Jesus would be the Conqueror
now you're talking about being beaten
and whipped and killed Peter saying
didn't you hear what I said that you are
the Christ Peter got the title wrong but
he missed the real message of who Jesus
is and so Jesus did what we have to do
sometimes we have to do a recasting and
Jesus basically says if you want to
follow me you're gonna have to deny
yourself and you're gonna have to carry
your own cross Jesus is letting us know
upfront it's going to be difficult it's
not going to be easy but I promised to
be with you always even to the ends of
the age
I wonder this morning if you pondered
lately what it means to be a disciple of
Jesus Christ I wonder this morning if
our perspective needs to be raised a
little bit I wonder this morning if
we're really ready for God to do a new
thing so as your pastor let me call for
huddle lend me your ear
friends we too need to fix our eyes on
Jesus and to become more alert of what's
going on around us in our huddle this
morning I think God wants to do a great
work in the life of this church in my
life in your life and what I want you to
hear is that just like Jesus was saying
to his disciples it's our time our
journey starts now
I'm huddled with you and I'm telling you
that the journey begins now it's our
time to push the boat into some deeper
water it's our time to take some risk
it's time out for playing Church amen
you know we can play Church and what I
mean by that is we can come to church
and we can say that we've been to church
but we don't want to serve in any way
it's timeout for that as a part of the
team God's team I need all of you
I want us this morning to think about
our commitment I don't want us to think
about other churches that are doing so
well and that are prospering and we give
more energy to that than we give to
raising our own church up to the level
that it needs I don't know if you've
read the midweek but in the midweek I've
asked beginning April 1 through April
31st I want to challenge our
congregation to a 30-day prayer and I
want us to listen to what's going on in
our church and listen to what's going on
in our community that's why God made us
with two ears and one mouth so that we
would talk less and listen more hello
that we can get on our knees and as my
grandmother would say use a little knee
ology not theology knee ology where we
pray and we get on one accord with the
Lord and we ask for direction it's not
going to happen until we are harmonious
are you with me I believe I perceive it
I can feel it that God is ready to do a
new thing and when I read this text I
couldn't believe what I was seeing that
even though Jesus what the
was with the disciples he had to have
time to pause and say maybe they're not
thinking like I'm thinking maybe they're
not on the same wavelength as I am but
we need to huddle and to do some
recasting so that we can do this work
that cog that God is calling us to do
that we might truly align ourselves with
the will of God that's my prayer
some people said to me I a regiment
midweek and it sounds like you you're
ready to leave I'm gearing up and I'm
not going down but I am gonna be bold
and I'm gonna ask are you with me can we
do this together
Providence Church can we do this
together this is our time right now is
our time to make a difference God would
send me here for me to rub elbows with
great men and women of this church and I
want them to raise our thinking to a
higher level so that we might perceive
where God is leading I'm not asking you
to trust me so much as I'm asking you to
trust God as I'm doing the same thing
Isaac would you come and lead us in the
word of Prayer let us pray most gracious
God we thank you on this morning Lord we
this ask that you continue to allow us
to trust in our Lord Jesus Christ with
all of our heart that we may not lean
unto our own understanding because we
know that your understanding is higher
than our understanding but Lord that we
may trust in you and God continue to
allow us as Providence United Methodist
Church to work together Lord that our
will may be your will and it may be done
here Lord as you want it to be done but
father we thank you right now on today
and we
give you all the praise in all the glory
but God we pray as Jesus taught his
disciples to pray our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come I will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever amen maybe I should
from the book of Mark chapter 9 verses
two through nine six days later Jesus
took with him Peter and James and John
and led them up a mountain apart by
themselves and he was transfigured
before them and his clothes became
dazzling white such as no one on earth
could bleach them and there appear to
them Elijah with Moses who were talking
with Jesus then Peter said to Jesus
rabbi it is good for us to be here let
us make three dwellings one for you one
for Moses and one for Elijah he did not
know what he what to say for they were
terrified then a cloud overshadowed them
and from the cloud there came a voice
this is my son the beloved listen to him
suddenly when they looked around they
saw no one with them anymore but only
Jesus as they were coming down the
mountain he ordered them to tell no one
about what they had seen until after the
Son of Man had risen from the dead
the Word of God for the people of God
let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace and I'm
grateful I am a broken vessel but I know
all you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Fortson Christ's name I pray amen
I want to share us
story with you that's attributed to the
washington post's it's called more than
enough and the writer says it this way
recently I overheard a mother and a
daughter and their moments together at
the airport as the daughter's departure
was announced standing near the security
gate they hugged and the mother says I
love you and I wish you enough
the daughter replied mom my life
together has been more than enough your
love is all I ever needed I wish you
enough too mom
they kissed and the daughter departed
the mother walked over to the window
where I said standing there I can see
that she wanted or needed to cry I tried
not to intrude on her privacy but she
welcomed me in by asking did you ever
say goodbye to someone knowing that it
would be forever yes I have I replied
forgive me for asking but why is this
forever goodbye I'm old and she lives
very far away and I have challenges and
the reality is that the next trip that
she makes back here will probably be for
my funeral when you said goodbye I heard
you say I wish you enough may I ask what
does that mean she began to smile that's
the wish that's been handed down in our
family from for generations my parents
used to say it to everyone and then she
paused for a moment and looked up as if
trying to remember everything and
detailed
she smiled once more
she says when we say I wish you enough
we were wanting the other person to have
a life filled with just enough good
things to sustain them then turning
towards me she said she shared the
following reciting it from memory
I wish you enough Sun to keep your
attitude bright I wish you enough rain
to appreciate the Sun more I wish you
enough happiness to keep your spirit
alive I wish you enough pain so that the
smallest Joy's in life appear much
bigger I wish you enough gain to satisfy
your wantings I wish you enough loss to
appreciate all that you possess I wish
you enough hellos to get you through
your final goodbyes then she began to
cry and she walked away I shared that
story with you because in the text that
was just read in your hearing Jesus is
more than enough he's
more than enough he's everything that we
need and more being on the streets of
Jersey City being a hardhead Christian
anybody else been a hardhead Christian
and it took me a long time to realize
that Jesus is all I need I came across a
story in the Daily Bread and the person
said that he was ready to entertain a
large group in his home but he feared
that the menu that he had planned
wouldn't be enough
to serve all of his guests I shouldn't
have worried because several friends
unexpectedly brought additional items
and all of us were able to enjoy this
surprise surplus we had more than enough
and we were able to share out of
abundance and he goes on to say we serve
a God of abundance who is consistently
more than enough we can see God's
generous nature and the way that he
loves his children Psalms 103 David says
it this way he lists many of the
benefits that our Father bestows on us
in verse 4 he says that he redeems our
lives from destruction and he crowns us
with the loving-kindness and tender
mercies the Apostle Paul says it this
way in Ephesians chapter 3 verses 20 he
reminds us that God has blessed us with
every blessing that he's able to do
abundantly exceedingly above all that we
could ask think or imagine
what I love about this Texas it talks
about who Jesus really is you know we
miss it when people say that he was just
a prophet you miss who Jesus really is
he's more than a prophet when we look at
this tax
it's a powerful text because Jesus
invites just a few of his disciples and
to to let them know who he really is you
know they're sometimes people around us
and they still don't know who we are
they still don't know about the things
that we love the things that we like
they don't know who we are but Jesus
made himself vulnerable in a sense and
he takes Peter James and John's with him
and they go up to a mountain to pray
somebody say prayers essential notice
once again in the text they get away
from everybody and they go up to a
mountain to pray if he is the son
thought and he prays how much more
should we pray hello and he says he goes
up to a mountain to pray and something
happened it says that he was
transfigured right in front of them that
this light emanated from Jesus it says
that Elijah and Moses came to they
showed up and maybe they were there to
strengthen Jesus because Jesus in the
text earlier began to tell them what was
going to happen to him that he would be
taken by the chief priests that he would
be killed and he would rise on the third
day so maybe that's why Moses and Elijah
Kane but you could imagine this
it says that the light emanated from
Jesus let me let me help you with this
that it wasn't a light that shone on him
it was a light that emanated from him he
was more than the prophet Isaiah more
than a prophet and you could imagine
Peter James and John they were scared
they didn't know what to do
Peter I love Peter Peter what I like
about Peters Peters gonna do something
he's gonna say something
Peter said let's build the tapping now
go right here listen I'll get three
stones and what I love about this text
while he was speaking a voice came from
the cloud can I give you my
interpretation of it Peter shut up this
is my beloved Son in whom I'm well
pleased it was undeniable he's more than
just a prophet you know what God was
saying don't put him on par with Elijah
and with Moses he's more than just a
prophet listen to him I sent him to you
so that we might have a relationship
my friends do you know there's so many
people who get that wrong because they
say Jesus was just a good man that he
was just a prophet all my friends I wish
we would read our Bibles he says let us
make man in our own image who was he
talking about anybody this was God the
Father talking to Jesus the son in the
beginning in Genesis let us make man in
our own image and then in the book of
John it says in the beginning was the
word and the Word was with God and the
Word
oh my somebody went to Sunday school he
more than a prophet you got to get that
because the prophet of old can't save
anybody hello there dead and gone Jesus
lives I want to share five things with
you that I learned about the
Transfiguration three of the Gospel
writers records this account Matthew 17
some of you were writing verses 1
through 8 and of course the text we have
the day mark 9 verses to the eighth and
then Luke 9 verses 28 through 36
what's powerful about this in the first
point that we need to hear Matthew 16
verses 28 it says the preceding Matthews
record of this event truly I say unto
you there are some standing here who may
not taste death until they see the Son
of man coming in his kingdom the Son of
man coming in his kingdom was shown to
some who was that it was Peter James and
John Scripture is being fulfilled and
number two the description of Jesus
clothing appearing dazzling white
something supernatural happened
maybe the supernatural nature of Jesus
was revealed remember the light didn't
shine around him it emanated from him we
need to get that because I don't want
you to
well they was up on the mountain and
then the sun's shined on him no it
emanated from him and then third it
seems as though when Jesus was speaking
to Elijah and Moses he knew them
intimately they probably died hundreds
of years before Jesus came along but he
knew them intimately
somebody say Jesus is more than a
prophet I needed to hear that this
morning Jesus reveals his
Transfiguration to his key followers and
he shows them who he is
but don't miss that the father had to
have his say amen
this is my beloved Son in whom I'm well
pleased don't take it from me take it
from the father he said it but when we
read the word of God all my friends are
so powerful it can fill us it can feed
us and we begin to delight in it Peter
later wrote this for we did not follow
cleverly devised myths when we made
known to you the power of the coming of
our Lord Jesus Christ but we were
eyewitnesses to his majesty for he when
he received honor and glory from the
father and the voice was born to him
this is my beloved son with whom I'm
well pleased
we ourselves we heard it and we knew
that the voice had come from heaven can
I just say to you boldly Jesus is more
than enough
one of the favorites my favorite stories
is when Jesus enters into the synagogue
and he opens Isaiah and he begins to
read and he says the Spirit of the Lord
is upon me because he has anointed me to
preach the gospel to the poor he has
sent me to heal the brokenhearted to
proclaim Liberty to the captives to
recovery of sight to the blind to set at
liberty those who are press and to
proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord
and then he says and this scripture has
been fulfilled in your hearing Jesus is
more than enough oh my friends
I remember reading the story of when
jesus healed a man who was blind from
birth don't you know that man said Jesus
is more than enough
whatever you stand in need of today
Jesus is more than enough maybe
something has died in your life remember
the story of Jesus raising lazarus after
four days the body began to smell but
Jesus says Lazarus come forth and he
came forth
maybe there's something dead in your
life maybe a broken marriage broken
relationship Jesus is more than enough
he can heal your situation he's more
than enough to restore
whatever is broken he's more than enough
you see when God the Father spoke to the
sciples and he says this is my son in
whom I'm well pleased
it was if God Himself was saying I have
sent my son Jesus to you and he's more
than enough for all of humanity
now I want you to imagine with me I
imagine Jesus
I mean God the Father saying I wish you
enough I want your life to be filled
with just enough good things to sustain
your life that's why I'm offering you my
son I want you to know that your
heavenly Father knows how to give his
children good gifts I wish you enough
enough son to keep your attitude bright
I wish you enough rain to appreciate the
son more imagine with me the father
talking to us right now I wish you
enough happiness to keep your spirit
alive I wish you enough pain so that the
smallest Joy's in your life may appear
bigger I wish you enough gain to satisfy
all of your wants I wish you enough loss
to appreciate all that you possess I
wish you enough hellos to get you
through your final goodbyes I want you
to under
stand that no matter what you go through
my son Jesus the Christ it's enough for
you and our grace is sufficient for your
lives Isaac would you come in lead us in
a word of Prayer let us pray most
gracious in heavenly God we thank you on
today Lord for your word that you have
given us we thank you for your son Jesus
Christ who is more than enough Lord for
every circumstance or situation that may
arise in our lives Lord you know what
we're going through
you know the hurt and the pain lord of
losing a loved one
you know the hurt and pain Lord of
losing a wife or a husband you know the
hurt or pain Lord in everything that we
do our struggles Lord that we struggle
in this life you know Lord but we know
that Jesus is more than enough we cast
all our cares upon him Lord we bring
them before the throne of grace and we
say Lord thank you we say yes to your
will in our life on today for father we
give you all the glory and all the
praise was in Christ's name we pray and
all of God's people said amen
chapter verses 29 through 39 as soon as
they left the synagogue they entered the
house of Simon and Andrew with James and
John now Simon's mother-in-law was in
bed with the fever and they told him
about her at once he came and took her
by the hand and lifted her up then the
fever left her and she began to serve
them that evening at sunset they brought
to him all who were sick or possessed
with demons and the whole city was
gathered around the door and he cured
many who were sick with various diseases
and cast out many demons and he would
not permit the demons to speak because
they knew him in the morning while it
was still very dark he got up and went
out to a deserted place and there he
prayed and Simon and his companions
hunted for him when they found him they
said to him everyone is searching for
you he answered let us go on to the
neighbouring towns so that I may
proclaim the message there also for that
is what I came out to do and he went
throughout Galilee proclaiming the
message in their synagogues and casting
out demons the Word of God for the
people of God
let us pray most gracious God I'm a
sinner saved by your grace and I am
grateful but I am a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you will not mean that
they might hear you and not me but the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
their heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen my
friends is high time to pray when we
have shootings in the house of God it's
high time to pray when prayer has been
taken out of our schools is high time to
pray when they're building more jails
than universities it's high time to pray
less and less people are going to church
or feel a need for worship it's high
time to pray when the rich are getting
richer and the poor are getting poorer
it's when immorality becomes the norm
it's high time to pray I want to
challenge your thinking with their
thought it's time to pray I want to talk
to you a little bit about Dorothy Malone
and doubt the Malone was an Oscar winner
back in 1966 but she shares how there
was a sudden health scare but how the
prayers of thousands of people across
the country bolstered her faith and
hastened her recovery this came out of
the guideposts one September morning
she's talking I awoke and I found myself
lying on the floor at the foot of my bed
I was in great pain unable to move much
of what happened that morning is hazy
now I was alone in the house with my two
small daughters I know I cried out loud
for them I woke them up and told them to
bring me the telephone I called my
mother and I guess I also called the
emergency clinic because by the time my
mother arrived so did they but the
clinic couldn't find anything wrong with
me all that they are laid in the bed and
pain getting steadily worse and finally
an internist came and took one look at
me and rushed me to the cedar of Lebanon
Hospital
it was my luck for the choice only three
weeks before the hospital had acquired a
new device for scanning a patient's
lungs this device I'm told helped me in
my situation that they knew that I would
need immediate surgery but not only that
the doctor who invented the machine dr.
Joseph fields would be one of the
doctors on the team
the machine that he created
would miraculously sustain my life
though during an 11-hour surgery yet my
good fortune was such that this team
assembled and began to do this great
work on me I remember nothing of course
but almost as soon as I regained
consciousness I can recall my mother
telling me that dozens then hundreds and
then finally thousands of people were
praying for my recovery my first
reaction to this was one of disbelief I
was inclined to think that my mother was
just trying to encourage me but then I
saw the letters that kept coming in
telegrams poured in
when I saw newspapers in the stories of
churches of all denominations were
praying for me that they held prayer
services just for me I grew in relief
and in gratitude but how does prayer
help a person who is desperately ill I'm
sure that there are many answers to this
question what a Mehta physician might
say that prayer is a form of love and
that love is a healing force a devout
person might say that God hears our
prayers and he answers them and is
simply that all I know is that their
prayers brought me strength a peace in a
calm just when I needed it the most she
said people ask me the following
questions
did your narrow escape from death make
you appreciate life more did it make you
more religious did it bring you closer
to God
two such questions my answer is usually
a gentle no no it didn't make me
appreciate life any more I've always
appreciated life and believed that we
should live it as full as possible
and no it didn't make me any more
religious because I've always been
religious with an intensity that varied
from time to time but never disappeared
from my life and no it didn't change my
relationship with God it just confirmed
it
what my illness did do in certain areas
was it's strengthened and it deepened
the conviction I already had certainly
in this case I was humbled by so many
people who took the time to pray for me
I thought of an eternal triangle how it
was so evident and I'm convinced that
the benefits flows in all directions of
that triangle those who prayed for me
and those who were prayed for this is
not something that I learned from my
illness
it's a conviction that was deepened and
strengthened by prayer my friends this
high time to pray not just when things
go haywire in the world around us but
it's high time to pray because of our
relationship with God how many of you
know what I'm talking about
what
about this text this morning is that it
begins with the bright sunny day in
where Jesus is having a walk along the
the seashore
and as he moves into mid-morning he
visits a synagogue for it was Sabbath
then hours later he visits the home of
Peter and Andrew and he heals Peters
mother and shortly after seems like the
whole city showed up at Peter's house
and Jesus is healing people and casting
out demons and what a love is that at
the end of this account it concludes
with Jesus pulling away for retreat for
solitude and then you have the disciples
looking for him in a frantic but when he
comes back he's ready for even greater
work in ministry so few simple verses
but I want to lift him up again in verse
29 to 31 we read that jesus heals Peters
mother-in-law from a life-threatening
fever in verse 32 to 34 we read about a
number of additional healings and
exorcisms that took place right outside
of Peters house in verse 35 we read
about Jesus going off to a quiet place
to have a little talk with the father in
verse 36 to 38 we read about Peter
leading a mass manhunt looking for Jesus
and then inverting not verse 39
Jesus comes back and he launches his
ministry preaching casting out demons in
doing great work what I love about this
text it seems as though it's a model for
us we live in the world where we are
busy we live in the world where there's
a lot of things going on a lot of things
to contend with but how do you replenish
when you've given so much how do you
feel back up I think that Jesus is
giving us a model jesus understood that
solitude is a time to replenish solitude
can enhance our creativity solitude
frees us up from the things that can bog
us down sometimes we need to pull away
to get alone to have a little talk with
God about the things that are going on
in our lives it's a time to recharge and
he's giving us this model so why is
daily prayer important quite simply in
order to do it we're following the model
that Jesus leads us prayer is the
vehicle in which we have a little talk
with the one who created us God wants
daily communication with us not just the
one hour and Sunday hello he wants to
talk to us on a daily base God cares
about everything that goes on in our
lives
I love prayer because it's an
opportunity to say thank you for all the
things that God
has done for me and continues to do for
me I don't know where I would be without
favor anybody else know what I'm talking
about
you drive on the road and it seems like
the road you're going on you you you
have a clear path and you look over at
the traffic to your right and it's just
busy or somebody cuts in front of you
and no accident how many of you walk in
God's favor parents used to pray for
your going out and your coming in and
it's true but prayers that time where we
can thank the Lord for it what I love
about prayer it's my time to confess
that I'm not everything that I ought to
be and ask the Lord to make me better my
son's prayer Lord make me better how
many of you know get that confession is
good for the soul it might be bad for
the reputation but it's good for your
soul I love prayer because when I pray
out I just know that God wants to hear
from me and how I want to hear from God
you know what's so beautiful about
prayer is to simply realize who's in
control amen Satan is not in control God
is in control
Bishop young chinchou our former bishop
put out a plea to all clergy and lay
that he wanted us to pray for one hour I
think that sounds pretty good right that
sounds reasonable since we say that we
love the Lord to ask us to pray for one
hour but do you know he received a lot
of criticism from clergy and lay can I
just find it interesting that we can go
to Facebook and be on Facebook for two
hours or more we don't even think that
an hour has gone by hello we can go and
watch a movie or watch our show
and we don't even think about the hour
which is enjoying the show but to pray
for one hour we can go and watch our
kids play soccer and we take videos and
we laugh and we smile but to pray for
one hour and God forbid I should go over
in this service I will hear from
somebody first chronicles 16 verse 34
says that we are commanded to give
thanks to the Lord for all of His
goodness for his love endures forever
the psalmist says it this way in Psalms
9 verses 1 I will praise you O Lord
with all of my heart and I will tell of
all of your wonders we ought to pray on
a daily base and acknowledge who God is
Jesus understood the busyness of life he
was busy just like the rest of us but he
knew how to pull away how to sometimes
we we need to go by ourselves it's good
to pray with other people it's good to
do that but it's also good to have that
one-on-one with just you and God to tell
them all about it
what's going on in your life will you
read the scriptures this is what the
saints before us did Abraham would pull
away and go into the hills and talk to
God Moses would pull away and go into
the hills and talk to God David found
time to pull away and talk to God when
you look at it Daniel did the same thing
he knew how to pull away and talk to God
Ezekiel knew how to pull away and talk
to God
what about us Augustine knew how to pull
away and talk to God Martin Luther John
Wesley Thomas Merton Richard foster
mother Teresa I can go on and on but it
was about a relationship it wasn't where
they can just check it off a box
sometimes they they prayed and they
argued with God sometimes they powdered
sometimes they pray for things they
shouldn't have prayed for sometimes they
just gave God praise and thanks for who
he is sometimes they just pulled away
because they delight it in that time to
talk to God what about you this morning
do you delight in talking to God came
across this article and it was written
by a pastor of Joe McKeever and he's
from New Orleans and he was talking
about all the stuff that they was going
through and New Orleans but I'm gonna
share one story from the article with
you
he says Evan Bryson was an officer of 26
years of New Orleans and he stood up to
the talk on camera as he detailed the
crime for which was reported late that
morning and this is what he says he says
I'm a father and I can't imagine this
news that I have to share with you today
the day before Father's Day Friday
a shelf a serves deputy was killed in a
nearby the place and several other
police officers have been shot in the
surrounding communities in recent days
what we have here is a full fledge crime
wave
Reverend McKeever says it this way I
know what he meant he said but I
wondered do we think that the devil is
just going to go quietly because we
prayed that if that he would turn loose
his iron grip on the city without a
murmur that he would give up so easily
a city that he's won over for many years
those of us who read the Bible he says
we know differently when we read the
scriptures we know that even when the
disciples cast out demons they didn't go
quietly
some of them went out screaming in
resistance here's what I want you to
hear that he says to us I hope you will
take this as a personal request for more
prayer deeper prayer more intense prayer
for this city in yours for leaders for
the people for the protectors for the
churches for ministers for rebuilders
and for volunteers and then he leaves us
with this litany I didn't take the whole
thing I wanted you to hear some of it
and he says that we could use this
when you don't know what to pray for
pray anyway ignorance is no excuse it's
high time to pray we don't feel like
praying pray anyway depression is no
excuse it's high time to pray when
dullness sits on you like a vulture pray
anyway
boredom is no excuse it's high time to
pray when you see no need to pray no
reason to intercede for another
recognize this as a sign of impending
danger and pray anyway blindness is no
excuse it's high time to pray when
you've grown spiritually lazy and feel
that you don't really feel like picking
up your Bible read it and pray anyway
laziness is no excuse it's high time to
pray when you don't understand what the
big deal about prayer really is pray
anyway immaturity is no excuse it's high
time to pray
Jesus was busy he prayed with so many
scripture says it looked like the city
had ended up at Peter's house and Jesus
went out praying and casting out demons
and healing people from their diseases
but he leaves us a model he pulled away
to have some quiet time with the Lord
I'm going to ask if Isaac will common
and close my message with prayer let us
pray
Oh Heavenly Father we thank you this
morning Lord we thank you for this word
that has come forth and God we thank you
for those who may not know how to pray
Lord but teach them to pray Lord we have
weapons of mass destruction Lord that we
fight our enemies with but Lord we fight
in prayer this morning we fight in
prayer Lord we thank you Lord for prayer
that you have given to your disciples
Lord that we may pray and it shall be
gone according to your will father we
thank you this morning that you continue
to move mildly by your spirit teach us
Lord to pray and for those who cannot
pray Lord teach them Lord that the
Spirit says sometimes you don't know
what to pray but the moanings the Spirit
will help you to pray for God we thank
you this morning that you continue Lord
to guide us continue to lead us here at
Providence United Methodist Church and
father that we were continued to pray
and align I will with your will and Lord
we give you all the praise and all the
glory and force in Christ's name we pray
and all of God's people said amen for
those who are going to serve with me if
our second reading comes from the book
of Deuteronomy chapter 18 verses 15
through 20 the Lord your God will rise
up for you a prophet like me from among
your own people you shall he's such a
prophet this is what you requested of
the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of
the assembly when you said if I hear the
voice of the Lord my God anymore or ever
again see this great fire
I will die then the Lord replied to me
they are right in what they have said I
will raise up for them a prophet like
you from among their own people I will
put my words in the mouth of the prophet
who shall speak to them everything that
I command anyone who does not heed the
words that the prophets shall speak in
my name I myself will hold accountable
but any prophet who speaks in the name
of other gods or who presumes to speak
in my name a word that I have not
commanded the prophet to speak that
prophet shall die the Word of God for
the people of God let us pray most
gracious God I'm a sinner saved by your
grace and I'm grateful but I'm still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray
amen a young man went to a Wednesday
night Bible study the pastor had shared
about listening to God and obey the
Lord's voice the young man couldn't but
but wonder does God still speak to
people even today and after the service
it was a group of them that went out for
coffee and dessert and they began to
share different ways that God can still
speak it was about 10 o'clock at night
when he left them and he started to
drive home but sitting in his car he
prayed this simple prayer God if you
still speak to people today speak to me
and I will listen and I will do my best
to obey as he drove down the Main Street
of his hometown he had the strangest
thought to stop and buy a gallon of milk
he shook his head like I can't believe
I'm thinking about buying milk and then
he says out loud God is that you he
didn't hear a reply so he just started
on his way home but again he had that
thought deep down inside by a gallon of
milk UMaine thought about it
you thought about the story of Samuel
when Sam you kept hearing God say Samuel
Sam you and he would go to Eli he says
well you know what I'm just gonna be
obedient I'm gonna go and buy the milk
he stopped he purchased the milk and he
started towards home and then he he
heard something says go to seventh
Street
where's this coming from he went past
seventh Street he went to another
intersection but he heard it again go
back to seventh Street so he turned
around and he went back to seventh
Street half jokingly he said out loud
okay god I'm just trying to be obedient
what is it that you want me to do
he drove several blocks when suddenly he
felt like he should stop he pulled over
to the curb and he looked around and
what he noticed that it was a commercial
area not a lot of houses but there was
some houses but it was late businesses
closed and most of the homes the lights
were out
people were sleep and then he sense that
he should take the milk across the
street to this house he didn't want to
do it he says what if these people think
I'm crazy knocking on the door with a
gallon of milk and get upset with me
Lord I'm gonna look foolish doing this
but he felt it again
so he goes to the house he knocked on
the door but he got scared and he ran
back to his car when he said in the car
he felt that he should get up and he
should just go and do it he knocked on
the door and there was a Hispanic
gentleman who came to the door he had on
jeans and the shirt looked like he had
just gotten out of bed and he says what
is it that you want and the young man
was scared he didn't know what to do so
he just held the milk out he says I
bought this for you
and the man had the strangest look on
his face he took the milk and he ran
down the hall he heard a baby crying
the man was speaking in Spanish he
didn't know what he was saying but his
wife came past them with the milk and
ran to the kitchen in the
husband came back and he and he says we
were praying because things were tight
we used all the money we had on our
bills and didn't realize it was that
tight we didn't have money for milk for
the baby and I was praying and asking
God to show me how to get some money so
that I can buy some milk and his wife
came from the kitchen and she says but I
prayed a different prayer I prayed that
God would send us an angel and give us
the milk are you an angel and the young
man said no he didn't know what else to
say
so he went into his pocket he took out
all the money he had and he handed to
the father but as he walked back to his
car he says lord I want to thank you for
speaking to me today and for allowing me
to be an answer to prayer maybe that
should be our prayer today God speak to
me use me let me be an answer to prayer
I want to challenge your thinking with
the thought when God speaks when God
speaks one of the commercials that I
loved it's probably when I was younger I
know I'm going to date myself when I say
this but how many of you remember the EF
Hutton commercials anybody I saw some
smiles over here so y'all dating
yourselves do well what was so cool
about the EF Hutton commercials is that
it seemed like they took place in a busy
place whether it was in an airport or
sort of like a restaurant or something
and and people would be talking and then
someone
would say oh well my investor is EF
Hutton then everything would get silent
it seemed like the traffic stopped all
the voices stop and everyone listened
and and then they would say when EF
Hutton is speaking see they're dating
themselves I love it but I love that
commercial but what I was thinking about
is what if we changed it a little bit
and we said when God is speaking
everyone is listening you know there are
some people who would listen to Oprah
more than they listen to the Bible hello
there some of us were pumped right into
the news and we listen to the news we
get our news feed and we go from one
station to the next but what if we were
to talk to God and plug in to what God
had to say more than what the news had
to say when God speaks we as the body of
Christ we ought to listen when God
speaks people everywhere should listen
why when God speaks is with the same
authority of the voice who spoke worlds
into existence it is with the same
authority that God spoke from a burning
bush when he told Moses take off your
shoes for your standing on holy ground
and it's with that same authority that
God speaks into our lives today God
speaks and to our lives with compassion
he gives us direction correction and
understanding simply because He loves us
and that pretty cool that the God of the
universe does it simply
because he loves us question that rings
out for us is how do we know if one
speaks for God if God is being used to
promote someone's social or political
agenda how do we know it's a good
question but you asked but in
Deuteronomy talks about the prophets and
one of one of the ways that they would
test the prophets was F what the Prophet
said came true then they knew it came
from God the way that you can test me do
you got to read the Bible because I
don't preach anything but what's in here
it ain't gonna be Derek's watered down
word it's gonna be the Word of God amen
and I encourage you whenever I preach go
back and take a look at what the
scripture is saying because sometimes
God is still speaking and God can
continue to speak to you
in Deuteronomy it's at the end of Moses
life and it's really around the
impending death of Moses and the
community is somewhat in jeopardy but
Deuteronomy represents Moses last words
to Israel both of the paths of the
present and of the future the style is
served sir monic in other words it's not
simply information but it's to encourage
us to control us calling people to live
for God in this passage it begins with
the reason why prophets are needed
you see prophets were called by God to
be God's mouthpiece and because they
worked for God they could just boldly
share the truth
and in this text God says that he would
raise up the profit from their own from
their own communities and that's what
God would do the profits came from their
own hometown because they knew the
hometown they knew what they was dealing
with and they could speak to it they
could connect and the people would
listen but isn't that awesome but the
question is does God continue to speak
to us today and how do we know I would
take you verse by verse but the
scripture has been read in your hearing
but what I want to do is summarize
Deuteronomy 15 through 20 the immediate
context of this passage it refers back
to verses 9 through 14 and there Moses
warns the people of the danger of false
prophets God's people are to avoid any
and all who presume to speak for God
verse 15 says a particular prophet will
arise from the Jews who will be like
Moses and notice that it's not just any
prophet but a special prophet who do you
think it's talking about from the Old
Testament was appointing - in the New
Testament Jesus somebody went to Sunday
School oh let's give them a big hand
it's pointing to Jesus I love the
stories of the prophets how God used
them listen to Jeremiah 7 verses 1
through 11 this is the word that came to
Jeremiah from the Lord stand at the gate
of the Lord's house and there proclaim
this message hear the word of the Lord
all you people of Judah who come through
the gate to worship the Lord this is
what the Lord Almighty the God of Israel
says reform your ways and your nations
and I will let you live in this place
do not trust in deceptive words and say
this is the temple of the Lord the
Temple of the Lord if you really change
your ways and your actions then you
ought to deal with people justly do not
oppress the alien the fatherless the
widows and do not shed innocent blood in
this place then I will let you live in
this space do you see how God would talk
to the prophets and he would warn the
people so that the people could live the
way that God wanted them to live how
many of you know that God holds the
standard for the way that we live
amen he created the standard I love the
story of the prophet Samuel he was just
a teenager he was living in the house of
Eli and he heard God say Samuel Samuel
he gets up he runs into the room where
Eli was and he says here am I Eli says I
didn't call you I imagined in my mind as
I read the scripture that Sam you said
well I heard a voice say Samuel Samuel
you telling me you didn't call me this
is crazy but he went and he laid down
and again he heard the voice of God
Samuel Samuel he got up he goes back
into Eli he says here am i yeah says I
didn't call you I don't know about you
but I imagine what Samuel was probably
thinking I wish he stopped playing with
me I know he called me I heard his voice
twice this is the second time he goes
back and he lies down came back three
times
eli says the next time you hear his
voice say speak for your servant is
listening are you listening for the
voice of God are you listening for the
voice of God I like what 2nd Timothy
chapter 3 verses 16 through 17 says it
says the Bible is the inspired Word of
God we are to read it to study it to
meditate on it and to remember that all
Scripture is god-breathed
it is useful for teaching for rebuking
for correcting for training and
righteousness so that the men women and
children of God may be thoroughly
equipped for every good work the god of
the universe wants to talk to you and I
he has a word for us and this is where
you'll find it we have something Samuel
didn't have Samuel didn't have the
complete Word of God but we have it and
the question is are you listening I
shared in the first service that I can
be very stubborn at times and I asked my
wife to confirm that sweetheart would
you confirm that I can be stubborn
what was
she said confirmed we're gonna get some
holy water and shake it on her in a
minute though
but in my stubbornness I wanted to hear
from God I was a teenager and I said
Lord I don't want you to speak through
other people I want you to speak to me
and I said on the floor and I said Lord
I'm not moving until you speak to me
hours went by and I didn't hear anything
he got up and I had lunch and after
lunch I went right back to that same
spot i sat on that floor and I said Lord
I'm not moving till you talk to me I
didn't hear anything I was like I know
you're saying this is not a good story
to tell people that you didn't hear from
God but I went back after dinner
and I got in that same spot and I
started to hear thoughts above my own
thoughts I started praying for people I
hadn't even thought about started the
things that worse none on my mind before
I got down in prayer I tell you
listening for the voice of God was one
of the best things I've ever done in my
life
lastly I want to close with what Rick
Warren had to say about the same issue
of listening to God he says jesus said
he's quoting John 10 verse 27 my sheep
recognized my voice and they follow me
he says a lot of people think that it's
not important to hear from God but you
should not be satisfied with that
attitude you need to be hearing from God
on a daily basis why and he leaves us
with three reasons it's absolutely vital
for you to be able to hear from God
directly for yourself number one he says
it's proves that you are in the family
of God
when you are tuned in to God and you
hear from him it confirms your
relationship just as parents taught to
their children God wants to speak to his
children are you listening number two it
protects you from mistakes doesn't mean
that we're not going to make mistakes
but maybe because but listen make fewer
mistakes because we're getting our
direction from God listen for the voice
God's voice and everything that you do
take it everywhere you go I will lead
you to good pass and then lastly he says
listen to God's voice because it will
produce success in your life not the
success that the world taught rich and
and wealthy but being right where God
wants you to be doing that thing that
God has wired you to do in my friends
I'm rich today because I believe that
I'm doing that thing that God wants me
to do Isaac would you lead us in prayer
our second reading is from the book of
Mark first chapter verses 14 through 20
now after John was arrested Jesus came
to Galilee proclaiming the good news of
God and saying the time is fulfilled and
the kingdom of God has come near repent
and believe in the good news as Jesus
passed along the Sea of Galilee he saw
Simon and his brother Andrew casting a
net into the sea for they were fishermen
and Jesus said to them follow me and I
will make you fish for people and
immediately they left their nets and
followed him as he went a little farther
he saw James son of Zebedee and his
brother John who were in their boat
mending the nets immediately he called
to them and they left their father
Zebedee in the boat with the hired men
and followed him this is the word of God
for the people of God most gracious God
I'm a sinner saved by your grace and I'm
grateful
the Lord I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to read a poem by Louis Blanchard
eenz it's entitled if Jesus came to your
house if Jesus came to your house to
spend some time with you if he came
unexpected I wonder what you would do oh
I know you give your nicest room to each
to such an honored guest and all the
food that you would give him it would be
the very best and you would keep
assuring him that you're glad to have
him there that serving him in your home
is a joy beyond compare but when you saw
him coming would you meet him at the
door without stretch arms and welcome to
your heavenly visitor or would you have
to change your clothes before you let
them in or hide some magazines and put
the Bibles where can be seen would you
hide your secular music and put some
hymn books out could you just let Jesus
walk right in or would you rush him
about and I wonder if the Savior spent a
day or two with you would you go right
on doing the things that you always do
would you go right on saying the things
that you always say or what life for you
continue as it does from day to day
would you take Jesus with you everywhere
you go
or would you maybe change your plans for
just a day or so would you be glad to
have him meet your closest friends or do
hope that they stayed away until the
visit ends would you be glad to have him
stay forever on and on or would you side
with great relief when he at last is
gone it might be interesting to
the things that you would do if Jesus
came in person to spend some time with
you how many of you know that he's right
here with us
that the eyes of the Lord roamed
throughout the earth that God already
sees everything and he knows everything
he knows our past he he knows our
present and he knows our future I want
to challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought called
by God the outline is is very simple as
just four verses verses 16 and 17 is the
call let me hear you say the call Jesus
passes along the Sea of Galilee and he
saw Simon and his brother Andrew casting
their nets and to the sea for they were
fishermen and jesus said to them follow
me I will make you fish for people verse
18 the response let me hear you say the
response and as they went a little
further he saw James the son of Zebedee
and his brother John and they were in a
boat mending their nets immediately he
called them verse 20 the response let me
hear you say the response they left
their father Zebedee in the boat with
the other Hiatt servants and they
followed Jesus they left everything that
they knew to follow Jesus what have you
in order to follow Jesus are you still
following Jesus with the same fervor and
passion that you once did if not what
changed
somebody might look at this story and
say well you know these men just jump
right in they didn't really count the
cost of what it meant to be a disciple
Jesus once said for which of you
intending to build a house does not sit
down and first count the costs whether
you have enough to to finish it or not
so that your friends don't make a
mockery of you or what King going to
make war with another King does not
first sit and consider whether he's able
with his ten thousand to meet the one
who comes against him with twenty
thousand or else while the other is
still a great way off
he sends a delegation to ask for
conditions of peace Jesus says so
likewise whoever of you does not forsake
all that he has you cannot be my
disciple for whoever desires to save his
life will lose it but whoever loses his
life for my sake will find it for what
does it profit a man to gain the whole
world and lose a soul I believe that
these men did count the cost you see
when Jesus came and he says to them
follow me maybe
they heard I've got a plan and a purpose
for your life it's gonna look a little
different than the way you've been
living your life you've been fishing for
fish but now I want you to fish for
people I'm gonna teach you how to do
that are you ready for a great adventure
come follow me I believe that that
statement is timeless God is still in
the calling business and he's saying to
all of us come and follow me I think I
think like most men and I can speak for
most men when I say that there's a few
redeeming things about shopping in fact
I can only think of one at this time I
don't know about you but I love going to
Costco and anybody else and what I love
about it is you go to Costco and they
have these tables where you can sample
the food anybody know what I'm talking
about and even though you went yesterday
and you go back again today you still go
in to sample those tables right we're
not gonna let them just go empty and
they're usually one person there to man
the table but the idea is to get you to
to buy the product I don't intend about
a product I just want to eat the samples
anybody else and I and I love the
samples I love the chicken subtle I love
the crackers on I love doing all of that
but I I wondered that if sometimes we
treat Jesus like a supermarket sample we
partake for our good but we're really
not interested in buying into the total
product I think we pick and we choose
what we want amen
some of y'all don't agree with me but
you know there's folks who will say I'll
go to Sunday school but I'm not going to
church you see we pick and we choose
what we want I love my church but I
don't want to go and hear no guest
preacher we pick and we choose what we
want I love my church but this week is
youth Sunday and I'm not up for that we
pick and we choose what we want are you
with me church but what if I put out a
plea and I said to the congregation I'm
gonna give $50 to every person who comes
the church well let me just say Hugh and
Jimmy is just rhetorical I'm not taking
any Church money and doing anything
crazy but I'm asking the question that
if I said I would pay each person $50 to
come the church what do you think would
happen it would be packed out wouldn't
it now I said this in the first service
and as people were coming at the end of
the door they shook my hand and one lady
said I want my $50 we pick and we choose
what we want so here's my question why
do we follow Jesus is it for
self-interest is it for divine interests
I love this
little pericope of text because it
compels us to answer the question do I
follow Jesus because of who he is or for
what he can do for me do I follow Jesus
out of a love relationship only you and
I can answer that question how have you
responded to the call of Jesus now after
John was put into prison Jesus came to
Galilee and he's preaching the gospel of
the kingdom of God and he says that the
time is fulfilled in the kingdom of God
is at hand repent and believe in the
gospel the time is fulfilled whose time
are we talking about the Greek comes to
our aid and it gives us two words
Chronos and Kairos Pro gnosis a word
that we use for time but we're talking
about the clock it's sequential it's
where we get our word chronology or
chronological it's a word about order
Chronos is what we call clock time it
keeps everything from happening at once
it's measured in seconds and minutes and
hours and days and so forth and so on
it helps us the schedule life even
though hectic it makes life doable but
cron
can sometimes get in the way of us
paying attention to God
but then this Kairos Kairos is a word
for time God's time but it can also be
translated as opportunity or chance let
me hear you say that opportunity or
chance I want to get that into your
spirit I've heard it said that Kairos
was envisioned as God on his tippy toes
because God is always ready God is
always on the move
Kairos is Kingdom time what I love about
Kairos is that when we look in light of
this story here it is that Simon and
Andrew are just doing what they've
always done they're fishing they're
making a living just doing the usual
in Chronos time and then Jesus shows up
Kairos time and he says follow me are
you ready for a great adventure notice
their response that's what I really want
you to pay attention Simon and Andrew
immediately follow Jesus and notice
James and John the sons of Zebedee Jesus
says follow me they left their father in
the boat with all the other servants and
followed Jesus their response
was beautiful their response was
immediate
maybe they saw it as an opportunity a
chance to do something greater than what
they've ever done we need to take
advantage of the opportunities and the
chances that are before us let me just
say this I shared in the earlier service
this might be good news to to some and
it may not be to others but is good news
for me amen the staff Paris decided to
to have me stay on another year I get to
stay one more year woohoo I'm grateful
for that but I feel a sense of urgency
to live out my call right here for such
a time as this that God would have us to
be together to make a difference right
here in the midst of this community
that's what our strategic planning will
be about Ephesians 5 verse 8 and 220s it
says this in light of Kairos that life
is fleeting in other words one day we're
here in the next day that we're gone but
it says live as children of light and
find out what pleases the Lord because
if you don't if you don't live for God
now what if you don't get another chance
you've been called to live for him
it goes on to say avoid shameful and
worthless actions of darkness because
there's no time to waste
we need to take advantage of the
opportunities and the chances that are
before us
then it says wake up o sleeper and rise
from the dead in other words you've been
called by God for a great adventure to
do a great work and if Christ isn't
shining on you and through you how will
people know of the opportunities that
they're missing God says I have no hands
but your hands I have no mouth but your
mouth he's depending on us
to share the gospel with someone else I
believe that we're called to turn the
world upside down I think what Jesus
wanted from all of his disciples was not
so that they would become academic about
God's Word but he wanted them to
understand that the church is to be more
than just a meeting place yeah it's good
to gather
it's good to give God things and to pray
and to have time for fellowship this is
all good but Jesus wanted the church to
be a place where God's Word will come
alive in each one of us when we hear the
word of God what do we do with it hasn't
become alive in you has it become alive
in me we are the
Church whether we're in this beautiful
building or we're standing on the street
corner we are the church
because we belong to him how many of you
know what I'm talking about
I want you to hear this again if Jesus
came to your house to spend some time
with you if he came unexpected I wonder
what you would do
oh I know you would give your nicest
room to such an honored guest and all
the food that you could give to him it
would be your very best and you would
keep assuring him that you're glad to
have him there that's serving him in
your home it's a joy beyond compare but
when you saw him coming would you meet
him at the door with arms outstretched
and welcome to your heavenly visitor
would you have to change your clothes
before you let him in or hide some
magazines and put the Bibles where they
could be seen would you hide your
secular music and put some hymn books
out could you let Jesus walk in or would
you rush him about and I wonder if the
Savior spent a day or two with you would
you go right on doing the same things
that you always do would you go right on
saying the same things that you always
say or would life where you continue as
it does from day to day
would you take Jesus with you everywhere
you go
or would you maybe change your plans for
just a day or so would you be
to have a meet your closest friends or
would you hope they stay away until the
visit ends would you be glad to have him
stay forever on and on or would you sigh
with great relief when he at last was
gone it might be interesting to know the
things that you would do if Jesus came
in person to spend some time with you
let us pray
most gracious God you've called each one
of us by name you've called us to serve
you to serve our communities to be
servants even in our families to do your
will to do your work I pray that you
take this message continue to sink it
into our hearts help us to think about
when we first gave our lives to you and
let us examine ourselves to see if we
are just as passionate about the things
of God as we once were and if not Lord
speak to us let us confess it for you
told us that if we can
our sins that you are faithful and just
to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse
us from all unrighteousness let your
will be done father we thank you for
Providence United Methodist Church
continue to let it be a beacon that sits
on a hill that it would be light in a
dark place thank you for all of the
leadership here Lord we ask that you
would have your way in the lives of our
sick and our shut-in for those who are
healing bless them and heal them even
faster for those who are grieving walk
beside them draw close to them for those
of us who were aging show us your grace
and now let us pray that prayer that
Jesus taught his disciples our Father
who are in heaven hallowed be thy name
thy kingdom come thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven
as we forgive those who trespassed
against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil
our second reading comes from the Gospel
of Luke chapter 8 verses 26 to 39 then
they arrived at the country of garrison
which is opposite Galilee and as he
stepped out on land a man of the city
which had demons met him for a long time
he had worn no clothes and he did not
live in a house but in tombs when he saw
Jesus he fell down before him and
shouted at the top of his voice what
have you to do with me Jesus son of the
Most High God I beg you do not torment
me for Jesus had commanded the unclean
spirits to come out of the man for me
for many times it had seized him and he
was kept under guard and bound with
chains and shackles but he would break
the bonds and be driven by the demons
into the wild Jesus then asked him what
is your name
he said Legion for many demons have
entered him they begged him not to order
them to go back into the abyss now there
on the hillside a large herd of swine
was feeding and the demons begged Jesus
to let them enter into these so he gave
them permission then the demons came out
of the man and entered into the swine
and the herd rushed down the steep bank
into the lake and drowned
when the swineherd saw what had happened
they ran off and told it in the city and
in the country people came out to see
what had happened and when they came in
when they came to Jesus they found the
man from whom the demons had gone
sitting at the feet of Jesus clothed and
in his right mind and they were afraid
those who had seen it told how the one
who had been possessed by demons had
been healed then all the people of the
surrounding country of the Gerasenes
asked Jesus to leave them for they were
seized with great fear so he got into
the boat and returned the man from whom
the demons had gone begged that he might
go with him but Jesus sent him away
saying return to your home and declare
how much God has done for you so he went
away proclaiming throughout the city how
much Jesus had done for him
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
made sink deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God
so I want to just say a huge thank you
to our wonderful chancel choir they
memorized this anthem that we're doing
today and I am just so proud of them for
all of the effort that they have put in
I'm also so thankful for the praise band
that came from the nine o'clock service
to sing with us and to play with us so
huge thank you to our wonderful
musicians this is our choir finale for
the season and I just want to also thank
Providence for a wonderful first year
here as the music director and also
thank my family for helping me in
supporting me and my husband that just
drove eight hours last night to surprise
me to be here today he wasn't supposed
to be here till tonight
he's like not probably didn't want me to
say that but that's okay I have to say
thank you because it's a team effort our
family does things together and
everything that you see here is because
of the support that I have at home so I
hope you enjoyed the song if you want to
sing with us please sing with us if you
know it if you want to clap do you want
to stand up it's a beautiful gospel song
so we encourage your participation this
morning
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
what
you
there
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I told you you we're gonna love it the
Lord is good the Lord is good if you got
your health and strength you know that
the Lord is good amen you may have
gotten out of bed and heard some snack
crackle and pop but you got out right
[Laughter]
let us pray
most gracious God I'm a sinner saved by
your grace but I am grateful for the
gift of salvation but Lord I'm still a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ name I pray
amen
sort of a strange text today isn't it I
mean demon-possession and Jesus casting
them out and they running into and I
just want you to know I didn't choose
this text this morning because this is
not a sermon series so don't don't worry
calm down right this is from the
lectionary text and when we read the
neck lectionary text is there and we
have to try to make sense of it and so
bear with me came across this story
about David Brainerd he was born in
April 2017-18 he's known as an American
missionary to the Native Americans who
was particularly fruitful in ministry
for
him but it was along the Delaware Indian
tribes of New Jersey but while he was
there they tell this story and I have to
just digress for a minute to say that
when we think of missionaries now you
know we send them to a place that's
pretty cushion you know we have support
in place there's been other folks who've
probably been there and and things are
set up we have systems of sending them
some support but when David Brenner went
out on a mission field there was no
support
you just went you took God with you you
prayed and you hoped for the best
there's no bodyguards he was on his own
the story goes like this
a tomahawk in their hands the Indians
crept towards this strange tent but as
they cautiously peeled under the flat
they were struck by the fact that there
was this man praying but what really
caught their attention
there was a rattlesnake right there and
it had positioned itself to strike and
while it's ready to strike the the
Indians of watching this these Native
Americans are watching this and the
snake did not bite him but it lowered
his head and it just left the tent and
so David Brennan was received so well by
these Native Americans and he didn't
know why until they told this story and
what they basically said was this man
this
strange man must truly be a messenger
from God I want to challenge your
thinking this morning with an thought an
unlikely messenger from God are you
listening choir an unlikely messenger
from God the first thing that I noticed
when I took a look at this text was that
this garrison man was running around
with no clothes on in the wild the text
says that they tried to help him they
tried to subdue him they put shackles on
him but with so many demons inside of
him he would break the bonds but the
first thought I had was he's a long way
from home amen anybody ever been away
from home for a long time I mean home
that place where we experienced love
home that place where we get our
guidance from where we are nurtured home
the place of support this garrison man
is far away from home home the place
where we are accepted and approved home
the place where we belong this garrison
man didn't have any of that when I
started thinking about home I I thought
about the ways in which my mother makes
home home she brings home with her if
anybody know what I'm talking about
when my mother comes to visit any of my
siblings we all have a list of things
that we want her to make my mom can
okay she can burn and you know my
brother would say mama make me a couple
trays of biscuits a couple of trays of
biscuits and chicken and dumplings
anybody know what I'm talking about in
my I'm out of school with some of you
how many of you know what collard greens
is with some hammer how okay okay y'all
are with me but my mother brings home
wherever she goes this beautiful couple
stand up for a second stand up for a
second I told them I'm marrying them in
November but I told them that whenever
they embrace each other
that's home amen you can be seated
but this garrison man didn't have any of
that he was alone in the woods and the
enemy was having its way with him but
how many of you know when Jesus shows up
great things can happen what I found
interesting in this text is that even
the enemy knows who Jesus is
when he saw Jesus he cried out with a
loud voice and he says Jesus called him
by name son of the Most High God I beg
you to have mercy on us do not torment
us but the other thought that came to me
knowing of Jesus and knowing about Jesus
is two different things are you with me
I mean when we say that we know of Jesus
we could probably be talking about
historical facts we could read scripture
and the scripture says Jesus come and
and that's it but that's knowing of
Jesus but knowing about Jesus is having
a relationship with them it makes all
the difference are you with me
and so even though this garrison man
cries out to Jesus there's no
relationship knowing of Jesus in knowing
about Jesus so many of us we have movie
stars that we we'd love to see we read
newspapers and articles about them we
try to keep up with their life we want
to know their favorite pet with their
favorite food is and we think we know
these people but I wonder if we were to
meet them and really sit down and talk
with them with that information that we
found would it be enough to say that we
really know them Jesus responded to my
question in this way in Matthew chapter
7 verses 21 to 23 not everyone who says
Lord Lord will enter the kingdom of
heaven but only the one who does the
will of my father and he goes on to say
some will say Lord Lord did we not
prophesy in your name Lord did we not
drive demons out in your name Lord that
we not do miracles in your name and this
is what Jesus says and Jesus says I
never knew you depart from me evil doers
it's not enough to just know who Jesus
is we have to trust them enough to
invite a min amen it makes all the
difference you know
some people say you know or they believe
that going to church makes you a
Christian going to church does not make
you a Christian no more than being born
in a bread pan can make you a biscuit
amen we got to have them on the inside
we got to invite him in it makes all the
difference my friends I'm telling you I
thought that I could live this life my
own way this is my life I'll do what I
want to do and I made a mess of it but
when I invited him in things begin to
change my thinking started changing I no
longer had the desire to do some of the
things that I was doing fighting and
getting in trouble I no longer had that
desire but I wanted to live for him
you see inviting him in it makes all of
the difference so my question is have we
invited him in now going to church is
good but it doesn't make us a Christian
but at least we're where we can hear the
Word of God
what I like about this text is that it
says that the demons leave this man the
herdsman go back to the city into the
country and tell everybody what had
happened but by the time they come back
the man who had been demon-possessed is
clothed sitting at the feet of Jesus in
his right mind
God makes all things new amen and when
you gave your life to Christ and I gave
my life we became new creatures you know
what I really like about this it says
that he makes us new creatures it didn't
say he takes the old stuff and try to
put patch it up no that's not what I
said we become new and he gives us a new
nature the old nature is passed away we
become new I heard somebody say it like
this when we have a real encounter with
Christ there's no way that we could
remain the same he makes the difference
amen
you can just nod it's okay to not he
makes all of the difference
this man is sitting at the feet of Jesus
what a great place to be listening to
the master clothed in his right mind and
when they come back and they see that
he's okay and all as well and these
demons have left and they heard about
the the swine going into the lake and
drowning they asked Jesus just to leave
it's too much too much we don't know
what you're doing we know you're
powerful but can you just get in your
boat and go some of us would be the same
way when we see something that's just a
phenomenon that we can't explain what I
love about the text is that this
garrison man who was far away from home
from his family his friends people who
knew him people who loved him he
basically says Jesus I want to go with
you let me go with you
and Jesus says no
you go back to your hometown tell them
what great things God has done for you
when was the last time you told folks
what God has done for you has the
novelty of your salvation worn off like
we we just forgot maybe it's 20 30 40
years ago 50 years ago when we gave our
lives to God but it's probably been 30
years since we told somebody what God
has done some of us God has healed and
we told people in the beginning what God
has done but we stopped telling it
we stopped telling what God has done do
you know that your testimony could be a
blessing to someone else your testimony
could give somebody hope I love this
text and it says and this man went out
and he told people everywhere he went
where God had done for him I was
thinking about the title of the sermon
and unlikely messenger God always seems
to turn things on his head when Jesus
was born rather than giving this good
news to the Pharisees the Sadducees he
gave the good news to the shepherds in
the field he gave it to the wise men to
follow a star and to share the good news
unlikely messengers when I think of an
unlikely messenger I think of the woman
at the well and here she was just not
wanting to be bothered with anybody she
just wanted to get her water and go
about her business
is anybody ever been there you just want
to go about your business you don't
really want to talk and there was Jesus
and Jesus broke the law because he's
talking to a woman and he's talking to
her Samaritan but he asked her for a
drink of water and she said but you
don't have anything to draw the water
with and they have this conversation and
Jesus says if you knew who asks you then
you know that I would give you a drink
of living water where you won't have to
thirst again she's like what whoa what
what are you talking about and before
you know it he tells her all about her
life and he forgives her sins
which I believe washes the soul clean
and then she goes back to her hometown
and she tells what great things God has
done and the scripture says and the
people were amazed which means that they
came to faith an unlikely messenger when
I think of an unlikely messenger I think
of the Apostle Paul
there he is persecuting God's church he
watched Stephen gets stoned he was bent
on just shedding this thing down and he
was knocked off his horse in Damascus he
was sort of blinded with the scales on
his eyes and Ananias heard God's voice
and say I want you to go to him and I
want you to pray for him now you know
what I love about Ananias Ananias he's
talking to the Lord but this is what
Ananias says Lord you show you sure I'm
supposed to do this you know he's been
persecuting the Christians he's watched
even get stoned you sure
and God says he's my chosen go and do it
has this encounter with God soulless
wash clean he's forgiven in half of the
New Testament is written by the Apostle
Paul when I think about an unlikely
messenger I think about me being raised
on a top streets of Jersey City and this
gracious God will call me to do this
work he would forgive me of all my sins
he would wash my soul clean set my feet
on the path let's share the good news
and I've been doing it for a long time
and every day is a day of joy because
he's with me amen
why don't you just say they say he's
with me he's with you sometimes we
forget and we think that we're going
through all of this stuff alone but he's
with us scripture says nothing shall
separate us from the love of God which
is in Christ Jesus our Lord
not life nor death nor peril nor sword
nor nakedness no principalities nor
height nor depth nothing shall separate
us from God's great love that's good
news amen
that we are loved that's good news amen
Shawn you were loved that's good news
amen
I just wanted to close my sermon but
just to say to Shawn
how much I appreciate what you're doing
for us as a church giving us an
opportunity to be a light for young
people through soccer giving us an
opportunity to even witness to their
parents giving us an opportunity to have
devotions with kids right here in this
community if you've never
have you've never been out there you
need to just bring your lawn chair and
watch it and if a smile doesn't come on
your face I believe something's wrong
with you
amen an unlikely messenger Joe Jillette
did it for a while and then Shawn took
over and has done a great job with it
what is it that I want you to hear is
that each and every one of us are
unlikely messengers because we're all
sinners saved by grace amen
so let us pray most gracious God we love
you so much and we thank you for your
ability to heal and to save and to
restore for your love that is so real
that you had a plan for us to be in
relationship with you and Lord you said
that you come to set the captive free so
Lord if there's anyone that's dealing
with any kind of addiction I don't care
if it's smoking alcohol substance abuse
free them set them free
what if there's anyone suffering today
from mental disorders heal them set them
free
Lord for the work that you have set
before us grant us courage and faith to
to move in faith and not in fear
increase our faith that we might trust
you in all things father we pray that
your will might be done and I pray that
as our congregation leaves this place
that they will remember what you have
done and what you continue to do for
them for their families Lord you have a
great track record you're such an
awesome God and now let us pray that
prayer that Jesus taught his disciples
our Father who are in heaven hallowed be
thy name thy kingdom come
Asians chapter 3 verses 1 through 13
this is a reason that I Paul am a
prisoner for Christ Jesus for the sake
of you Gentiles for surely you have
already heard of the commission of God's
grace that was given to me for you and
how the mystery was made known to me by
revelation as I wrote above in a few
words a reading of which will enable you
to perceive my understanding of the
mystery of Christ and former generations
this mystery was not made known to
humankind as it has now been revealed to
this holy apostle by his prophets and by
the spirit that is the Gentiles have
become fellow heirs members of the same
body and shares and the promise in
Christ Jesus through the gospel of this
gospel I have become a servant according
to the gift of God's grace that was
given to me by the working of his power
although I am the very least of all the
Saints this grace was given to me to
bring the Gentiles the news and the
boundless riches of Christ and to make
everyone see what is the plan of the
mystery hidden for ages and God who
created all things so that through the
church the wisdom of God in its rich
variety might now be made known to the
rulers and authorities in the heavenly
places this was in accordance with the
eternal purpose that he has carried out
in Christ Jesus our Lord in whom we have
access to God in boldness and confidence
through faith in Him I pray therefore
that you may not lose heart over my
suffering for you they are your glory
the Word of God for the people of God
good morning want to talk this morning
about do you know the depths of God's
grace how about in your life do you know
the depths of His grace in your life
just take a moment and think about how
impactful God's grace has been in your
life I know for some of us that make
take a little while longer than others
for me how do we define grace some would
say that this is the freely given and
unmerited favor of God some would say
that it is God giving us something that
we didn't deserve or didn't work for and
that's God's grace in Ephesians 2 verses
8 through 9 it says for by grace you
have been saved through faith and this
is not your own doing it is the gift of
God not because of works lest any man
should boast see we sometimes find it
hard to accept a free gift because we're
always trying to figure out how much do
you want for this gift or why are you
giving me this gift what is it that you
want for this gift you see we always
think that we have to work for it or pay
for it in some way but if God is saying
and it's giving you a gift it is not
about dollars and cents
it is about grace it is about faith and
it's about your salvation by grace we
mean God's extraordinary love for us in
life we're accustomed to earning
approval from others this is true in
school at work in society and even at
home to a certain degree we feel that we
have to act perfect or be liked or loved
but God's love or grace is given without
any regard
of our goodness it's unmerited it it's
unconditional and its unending amen
the gift from God has already been paid
for by Jesus Christ we just have to be
able to accept it so actually again
church do you know the depths of God's
grace in your life I want to take a look
at how John Wesley looked at Grace John
Wesley's major focus was on the whole
process by which believers live out
their life of grace he called this
process the way of salvation it is a
lifelong process and it has a beginning
and it was guided by the purpose of
achieving wholesome godly maturity you
see Wesley believed that God's
prevenient grace is given to us before
we ever even accept Christ it is given
by God to everyone whether they are
aware of it or not it leads people to
repentance of sin and they realized the
need for God in their lives in Titus
second chapter verse 11 through 13 it
says for the grace of God has appeared
bringing salvation to all training us to
renounce impiety and worldly passions
and in the present age to live lives
that are self controlled upright and
godly while we wait for the Blessed hope
and the meta fest station of the glory
of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ
Wesley believed that God's justifying
grace through faith in Christ is a gift
it does not come because we have earned
it through good works it leads to a new
birth of the Holy Spirit and a life of
good works being born again is simply a
change of attitudes and mindsets
which we choose to do God's will because
the way of salvation is a process which
you come to realize over time that your
life is being changed and headed in a
new direction what's they also believe
that God's sanctifying grace begins with
the new birth in which we change our
willed and affections sanctifying grace
is learning to love God with all of our
being and love our neighbor as ourselves
it begins to transform us into who God
intends for us to be we also begin to
mature in Christ and live as he did as
we study the scriptures as we fast as we
pray and as we worship and fellowship
with our brothers and sisters in Christ
I want to share with you some examples
of God's grace in the story of Noah it
is filled with God's grace you see
wickedness and evil were rampant in the
hearts of men that God actually
regretted creating them he was ready to
wipe them out but there was one man who
was righteous he was faithful and he was
committed to walking with God Noah was
not a perfect man yet God chose to save
his family from destruction
now that's grace God's grace endures in
spite of Abraham and Sarah's unbelief
Abraham's fear led him to distort the
truth
by saying Sarah was his sister to save
his own hide did you know that Sarah
laughed at God when he said that she
would give birth to a son in her old age
and then after laughing at God she
encouraged her husband to sleep with
another woman to fulfill the promise
Abraham and Sarah's lives were marked
with disbelief and disobedience yet God
remain faithful to his promise and Sarah
had a child and named him Isaac now
that's grace God's grace for Joseph gave
him strength to persevere
Joseph was despised by his brothers he
was sold into slavery wrongly accused
left to rot in prison but that's not at
all how Joseph saw things you see in
Genesis 45 7 he says but God sent me
ahead of you to preserve for you a
remnant on earth and to save your lives
by a great deliverance God used
difficult and trying circumstances to
position Joseph as the savior of his
people sometimes God has to use
difficult and trying circumstances to
move us into our purpose and get us
where he can use us amen
if Joseph had not been sold into slavery
there would have been no Moses no David
and no son of David called Jesus Christ
now that's Grace Moses doubted God but
God still graciously guided him Moses
was as flawed as they come he was
arrogant stubborn doubtful yet God
faithfully walked with him and as time
passed Moses learned how to faithfully
obey God used him to lead his sheep out
of captivity God chose to listen to and
walk with the man who in his youth
killed another man with his bare hands
now that's Grace the Israelites they
repeatedly rebelled against God yet he
graciously rescued them the Israelites
grumbled against God they broke his
Commandments worship false idols time
and time again they turned away from God
did whatever they wanted suffered great
consequences and then returned to God
and begged him to rescue them sound
familiar
over and over and over again
there were lasting consequences for
their poor decisions but God showed more
grace than they deserved I want to take
a look at David David lusted
he stole he fornicated he'd lied and
killed yet God saw his heart and he
loved him David is the ultimate example
of God's unmerited favor you will be
amazed by how deeply David loved God in
his heart of hearts I don't think David
ever strayed from his love for God if
you don't believe me just read the
Psalms he made some pretty terrible
decisions along the way but haven't we
all I'll be the first one in line the
key is he always turned from his sin and
repented and God forgave him he was a
man after God's own heart
now that's grace do you know the depths
of God's grace in your life church you
may have noticed that it's not about you
and it's not about me but it's all about
God who desires that all be saved and he
is redetermination his holiness even
through broken people the beautiful
thing about being a Christian and having
a relationship with Jesus Christ is that
we don't have to live our lives in guilt
and condemnation for our failures and
unachieved goals because we serve a
gracious God amen God doesn't hold our
pass against us as long as we sincerely
repent as David did
so our telling you today Church trust
him trust him with your life because he
gave it to you trust him with your
purpose because you didn't choose him he
chose you trust him in all circumstances
because even with others intend for evil
God can make use of it for his good
trust him to free you from your chains
to deliver you from bondage and set you
free trust him and may the grace of God
feel your life in all that you do
amen let us pray most gracious in
heavenly God we thank you on today Lord
that your word has gone forth Lord and
shall achieve all you have sent it forth
to achieve we thank you today Lord for
as Jesus disciples when they asked him
to teach us to pray he taught them our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come be done on earth
as it is in heaven give us this day
daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power
you may be second our second scripture
reading is from mark 1 verses 4 through
11 John the Baptizer appeared in the
wilderness proclaiming a baptism of
repentance for the forgiveness of sins
and people from the whole Judean
countryside and all the people of
Jerusalem were coming out to him and
were baptized by him in the river Jordan
confessing their sins now John was
clothed with camels hair with a leather
belt around his waist and he ate locusts
and wild honey he proclaimed the one who
was more powerful than I is coming after
me I am not worthy to stoop down and
untie the thong of his sandals I have
baptized you with water but he will
baptize you with the Holy Spirit in
those days Jesus came from Nazareth of
Galilee and was baptized by John in the
Jordan and just as he was coming up out
of the water he saw the heavens torn
apart and the spirit descending like a
dove on him and a voice came from heaven
you are my son they'll be loved with you
I am well pleased
the Word of God for the people of God
let us pray father I'm a sinner saved by
your grace and I'm grateful but to do
your holy work or you have to do is say
the word and I know that I shall be
healed long enough to do this work hide
your preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart
be acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking with
the rhetorical question what difference
has baptism made in your life I don't
want you to answer it but I want you to
think about it what difference has
baptism made in your life
and I came across this scripture that I
want us to think about it even as we
approach the text 2nd Corinthians
chapter 5 verse 17 so if anyone is in
Christ they are a new creation
everything old has passed away see
everything has become new what's
interesting about the Gospel of Mark he
doesn't talk about the birth of Jesus
he doesn't talk about Jesus youth but he
starts out with the beginning of his
ministry
it comes as the fulfillment of the
messengerís promised in Isaiah chapter
40 verse 3 or in Malachi chapter 3 verse
1 you know there's a voice crying in the
wilderness propane prepare the way of
the Lord John's own explanation of Jesus
baptism kind of goes like this i baptize
you with water but there's one who's
coming who will baptize you with the
Holy Spirit
baptism had two components repentance
and forgiveness and I think that this is
a great message for us for 2018 one
repentance and the others forgiveness do
you know that they are Christians
brothers and sisters who will not
forgive who is still holding on to
things and when I thought about
repentance the more I get in touch with
my sinfulness the more holy God is or
maybe the more holy God is the more I
get in touch with my sinfulness I don't
care how you put it but to realize that
we serve a holy God and that we need to
repent so that the relationship that we
have with God can be in good standing
this is a great message for 2018 our
baptismal liturgy can also come to our a
because it marks the end of an old life
this is what we say says do you renounce
the spiritual forces of wickedness
reject the evil powers of this world and
repent of our sin it's the beginning of
a new life in Christ as a way of us
saying I don't want to live the way that
I used to live I want to live
differently then John adds a new
component with the gift of the Holy
Spirit as also found in our liturgy do
you believe in the Holy Spirit I believe
in the Holy Spirit the Holy Catholic
Church the communion of the saints the
forgiveness of sins the resurrection of
the body and life everlasting our
baptismal covenant says that we have
been sealed by the Holy Spirit
message begins like this it opens from
the scroll of the prophet Isaiah and the
prophet I'm missing a note here and the
prophet Isaiah says that he's preparing
the way but listen to it sort of in
layman's terms watch closely
I'm sending a preacher ahead of you he
will make the road smooth for you he
will be like thunder in the desert he
will pear prepare you for God's arrival
he will make the road smooth and
straight and then John the Baptizer
appears in the wilderness preaching this
baptism he was talking about the fact
that your life could be changed through
repentance and forgiveness he says I'm
going to baptize you in the river Jordan
but I want you to exchange your old life
for Kingdom life are you ready to
exchange your life for a better life in
essence John is saying I didn't come to
make you bitter I came to make you
better i'm baptizing you here in the
river jordan asking that you turn your
old life in for Kingdom life but his
baptism the one who's coming after me he
will baptize you with the Holy Spirit
and it will change you from the inside
out what a great message for 2018 that
God is still in the changing business
that he's ready to change our lives from
the inside out so what we need is not
another New Year's resolution what we
need is for God to change our lives
from the inside out Reverend James
Merrick comes to our aid he says I
believe that every year that God gives
us on this earth is to be a year where
we are as productive as we can be for
his work and as pleasing as we can be
for his glory continuing he says the
longer you live the more you realize
just how fleeting these years are and
just how important it is to maximize the
potential of each year for being what we
ought to be in doing what we ought to do
how many of you know that the years are
fleeting they go by so fast
seems like my son was just born and now
he's 13 years old where did the time go
my wife and I seemed like we got married
yesterday and we are able to celebrate
20 years it just seemed to go by so fast
but life is feeding fleeting but every
year at least half of us will do
something that in the beginning it will
be exhilarating but by the end it will
become very frustrating we will make our
new year's resolution and according to
USA government the top 10 resolutions in
America sort of go like this to lose
weight to manage debt save money to get
physically fit to eat healthy to learn
something new to drink less alcohol I'm
not talking about anybody here at
Providence because I know that's not you
are the quit smoking to reduce stress to
take a trip somewhere or to volunteer to
help others all of these are good
resolutions but the problem is that four
out
five people who make them will break
them one third of the people who make
resolutions won't get past the end of
January before they break them that's
why I believe that's what is needed is
not another New Year's resolution but
what's needed is for God to change us
from the inside out what is needed is
for God to help us maximize this year
and every year what's needed is for us
to continue to ask God for help to reach
our god-given to pent potential to be
what we ought to be to do what we ought
to be doing and to become what we ought
to become in today's texts Jesus is
baptized and so some of you are saying
why is that important for us in this new
year at first glance it seems that Jesus
baptism really doesn't have a purpose at
all because John's baptism was about
repentance and forgiveness but Jesus is
holy he is sinless so why would he stand
in need of John's baptism even John was
sort of taken back when Jesus came to
him for baptism John is saying look I'm
a sinner I stand and need to be baptized
by you and yet you come to me and you
want me to baptize you Jesus response is
so great
he says it's fitting for us to fulfill
all righteousness perhaps it was fitting
for John to baptize Jesus since he was
the forerunner since he was the one who
prepared the way then he should be the
one to let everybody know that their
prayers have been answered
no about you but when I read the
scriptures sometimes I imagined how it
went and I imagined John and the the
Jordan River baptizing different ones
and and asking them to confess their
sins and talking to them as he's
baptizing them and then he sees Jesus
and he says that's him that's the one
that's the Promised One that's the one
we've been talking about that's the one
who will come and will change your life
that's the one who will come and baptize
you with the Holy Spirit and with fire
he's the one you've been waiting for I'm
not worthy to untie his sandals and yet
he's coming to me asking me to be
baptized Jesus says it's all right John
let's do it it's to fulfill all
righteousness it's to fulfill the
Scriptures as promised by my obedience
maybe it will help you to be obedient
that even if I didn't need it and I did
it because this is what God would have
us to do then maybe we would do it even
more listen to this scripture as the
Apostle Paul puts it 2nd Corinthians
chapter 5 verse 21 God made him who had
no sin to be sin for us so that in him
we might become the righteousness of God
how many of you just want to say thank
you after reading that he became sin for
us so that in him we might become
the righteousness of God in a few short
minutes I'm going to come down and and
say the blessing over the water and
we're going to reaffirm our faith for
2018
I didn't say rebaptised Isaac we don't
rebaptised in a United Methodist Church
even if you were baptized as an infant
we believe that the first baptism took
amen so we don't rebaptised but we will
reaffirm our faith in baptism is an act
in which Christians are immersed or
sprinkled with water to symbolize the
end of the old way of living and to
support our new start today we will
reaffirm our faith we will reaffirm our
commitment to live for God would you
open your hymnals to page 41 for those
who are
our scripture reading comes from the
Gospel of Luke chapter 1 verses 26 to 38
in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was
sent by God to a town in Galilee called
Nazareth to a virgin engaged to a man's
whose name was Joseph of the house of
David the Virgin's name was Mary and he
came to her and he says greetings
favored one the Lord is with you
but she was much perplexed by his words
and pondered what sort of greeting this
might be
the angel said to her do not be afraid
Mary for you have found favor with God
and now you will conceive in your womb
and bear a son and you will name him
Jesus he will be great and he will be
called the son of the Most High the Lord
your God will give to him the throne of
his ancestors David he will reign over
the house of Jacob forever and of his
kingdom there will be no end Mary said
to the angel how can this be since I'm a
virgin the Angels said to her the Holy
Spirit will come upon you and the power
of the most high will overshadow you
therefore the child to be born will be
holy he will be called the Son of God
and now in your relative Elizabeth in
her old age has conceived a son and this
is the sixth month for her who is said
to be barren for nothing will be
impossible with God then Mary said here
am I
the servant of the Lord let it be with
me according to your word then the angel
departed from her the word of God for
the people of God let us pray most
gracious God I'm a sinner saved by your
grace but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will
hi this preacher behind the cross that
your people might see you and not me
that they might hear you and not me let
the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer
Forte's in Christ's name I pray amen
what a challenge of thinking this
evening I've been saying morning all
night but I want to challenge your
thinking this evening with the thought
chosen by God chosen by God I want to
share a story with you about a nine year
old little boy who lived in a rural town
in Tennessee the house that he lived in
was very poor and so was the community
but the church only three blocks down
from where this little boy lived had a
bus ministry they were going knock on
doors and invite people to come to
church and the pastor came to this house
of this nine-year-old little boy he
knocks on the door and he asked if he
could talked to his parents and the
little boy said my parents are not here
the pastor said while I'm a pastor down
the road where are your parents
he says they work on the weekends and
I'm here with my little brother taking
care of my little brother
he said all by yourself he said yes the
pastor said well where do you go to
church and the little boy says I've
never been to church in my whole life
and the pastor said you've never been
the church he said no he said well today
is your lucky day because I want to tell
you a story the greatest love story ever
told the pastor commenced to tell him
the story about Jesus and about the
Nativity and how this child came to take
away the sins of the world and he says
he's offering each of us a free gift do
you want that gift and the little boy
says oh yes in the pastor read some
scripture let him through the steps of
salvation and young boy gave its life to
the Lord
the pastor if it would be all right if
he would come back tomorrow and bring
him to church and he said sure so the
next morning the pastor shows up he's
got doughnuts and milk he knocks on the
door but nobody answers he lets himself
in and the little boy was sleep he had
never been to church so the pastor said
hey it's me I'm the pastor he got the
little boy up helped his brother get
dressed and they went to church now
imagine this little boy 9 years old had
never been in church and everything was
beautiful the steeple the church and he
got inside and he sat down and but you
know how we do in church we stand up for
certain things we sit down for certain
things and if you're not used to that it
feels a little awkward but he was trying
to
and he was trying to pay attention
offering time came and he didn't know
what that was and so as they began to
pass the plates around he checked his
front pockets and checked his back
pockets he didn't have a thing but
somehow he kept his eye on the plate and
when the plate got to him he just held
on it and he mumbled a prayer but it
didn't seem right so he turned around
and he watched the plate go from one
side to the next side and he says I know
what I'll do
he got up from his seat he walked to the
back he asked the usher if he can just
hold the plate one more time what an
interesting request Russia said ok he
put the plate on the carpeted floor and
he stood in the center of the plate he
leaned his head back he opened his arms
and he says dear God I don't have any
money but I give you all of me you chose
me and now I've chosen you take all of
me from a child somehow he got it right
that when we come to church it's a gift
we don't get to stand in the offering
plate some of us would break it some of
us would fall but what a great thought
chosen to be in offering there's another
story about a young man who landed a
great job and he was in Tokyo so he
called his father woke his dad up it's a
12-hour
difference hey Dad how you doing will is
that you yes that it's me well what time
is it where you are
really calling you because I wanted to
check my phone and make sure I got some
reception here and I chose to call you
well son I sure liked being chosen by
you well that I can't stay on the phone
long I gotta go alright love you son
love you dad and the father got off the
phone and he pondered the words I chose
you we all know what it feels like to be
chosen don't we some of us have played
sports and to be chosen we also know
what it feels like not to be chosen the
streets of Jersey City and playing on
the playground you had to be good to be
chosen anybody know what I'm talking
about
you sit there and you say I got next and
they say no you don't you ain't playing
with us but it feels good to be chosen
Johns 15 verse 16 says Jesus says this
you did not choose me but I chose you
and appointed you so that you might go
and bear fruit and that your fruit will
last and so that whatever you ask in my
name the father will give to you
Ephesians 1 and 4 says he chose us in
him before the creation of the world to
be holy and blameless in his sight
you are a Chosen People a royal
priesthood a holy nation God's special
procession that you might declare the
praises of him who called you out of
darkness into the wonderful light it's
undeniable that we've been chosen chosen
by God to do a great work Ephesians 2 in
verse 10 says God has prepared good
works in advance for us to do God chose
us because he has a purpose in mind for
our lives how many of you know that
God's got a plan and a purpose for your
life as we take a look at Mary's story
you will see in this story that Mary was
chosen by God not because she did
anything special but she was chosen
because of God's love
as we read this story before we get to
Luke and we talk about the Old Testament
only a few pages before it ends with the
Prophet Malachi four hundred years had
passed since there was a miracle no
miracles in 400 years it was almost as
if God was silent how many generations
can die off in 400 years but now God is
ready to do a great thing to do a new
thing comes to Mary Mary is not from
some prominent family she was a poor
teenager you have to understand that the
tiny nation of Judea had been dominated
by foreign powers and they were
dominated by Rome in the midst of the
political unrest there was just a small
group of devout men and women and Mary
was among them a teenager a teenager
I got some of my college students back
there God has always used young people
can you hear me God has always used
young people in the fullness of God's
timing Mary is about to experience the
greatest miracle ever told
have been duplicated she's about to
experience the greatest miracle ever
told she's described as highly favored
the phrase highly favored comes from the
single Greek word which essentially
means much Grace Mary received much of
God's grace
what is Grace unmerited favor something
that we don't actually deserve but out
of God's love he extends it to us
nonetheless but Mary's humility she
understood her place Mary was just an
ordinary young woman but God was ready
to do something extraordinary
Mary was devout highly favored the angel
of the Lord comes to her
and Mary says how can this be the Holy
Spirit will overshadow you and you will
conceive a child you were to name him
Jesus can I do this in layman's terms
she was afraid of the angel and she's
pondering the message and I imagined
that in her mind she says let me get
this straight
the Holy Spirit is going to come upon me
and make this possible
I imagine the angel says yes and God
already knows that I'm going to have a
boy the angel says
yes and I'm to name him Jesus and the
angel says yes Mary you mean the God of
all creation wants me to be a part of
his journey and the angel says yes
notice Mary's response though let it
happen for me just as you said and then
the angel departed God chose Mary in the
birth of Jesus to turn the world upside
down I told my son that he's come to
change the world how many of you told
your children that that they've come to
change the world we got to speak it into
their lives I came across this the
author unknown when I was a young man I
wanted to change the world I found it
was difficult to change the world so I
tried to change my nation when I found
out that I could not change the nation I
began to focus on my town I couldn't
change the town and as an older man I
tried to change my family now that's an
old man I realized the only thing that I
can change the only person that I can
change is myself and suddenly I realize
that if long ago I had changed myself
maybe I could have had an impact on my
family at
changed myself maybe my family and I
could have had an impact on my town if i
had changed myself maybe the impact we
could have changed the nation and if we
had it changed the nation we would have
indeed changed the world author unknown
but what a thought how many of you know
that you've been chosen by God we are
the body of Christ we've been chosen by
God as the body of Christ God does
things in ways that we can't seem to
understand he chooses the foolish things
to baffle the wise he'll choose the weak
to show his strenght he'll choose the
low and the despised in the world so
that he might get the glory and no one
can boast it's that time again it's
Christmas we sing the joys of Christmas
but here it is what's the real meaning
of Christmas is it really about the
gifts under the tree the lights in the
window the cards in the mail the turkey
and ham dinners with family and friends
snow in the yard
stockings hanging over the fireplace and
shouts of Merry Christmas god bless you
is that really the meaning of Christmas
for many people Christmas is really not
a time of joy for some people it's a
time of sorrow some have lost family
members
just before the holidays some don't have
the extra money to buy the presents for
their children family and friends many
are saddened at this Christmas time but
I hope today that you may hear something
that would make your joy full
Christmas can be a season of great joy
it's a time of God showing his grace in
his love for us in the greatest way ever
shown over 400 years God was silent and
now through Mary he sends his son the
Christ child Jesus the one who had been
promised and he basically says he'll
bring you all the joy that you need
don't take my word for it go back and
read it you'll hear the Shepherd's joy
the wise men's joy all those who were
able to see
the Christ child this Christmas I hope
you experience it anew I hope that you
will invite Jesus into your hearts and
maybe you too will stand and and be the
offering tilt your head back and lift up
your arms and say lord I don't have much
but I rededicate myself to you I give
you all of me you chose me and I choose
you again and again scripture says that
while we were yet sinners Christ died
for us
Jesus is the reason for the season and
if we would just hold on to that and
realize that God uses ordinary people to
do extraordinary things and because of
it we become part of Jesus story you
have been chosen to serve I've been
chosen to serve let us pray
Lord you were there when all else fails
you are there Lord you're so faithful
loving gracious and kind you celebrate
with us
in the good times you draw near to us in
the troubled times and what a blessing
it is to know that we have favor with
you Heavenly Father we thank you for
sending Jesus into the world so that we
might have a real relationship with you
touch the hearts of everyone here let
the light of your love penetrate
whatever they're going through so that
we might leave this space better for
coming that our cup will continue to run
over and that we might be people with
grateful hearts and now let us say that
prayer that Jesus taught his disciples
our Father who are in heaven hallowed be
thy name thy kingdom come thy will be
done
the Gospel reading comes from Luke
chapter 2 verses 1 through 20 in those
days a decree went out from the Emperor
Augustus that all the world should be
registered this was the first
registration and it was taken while
Quirinius was governor of Syria all went
to their own towns to be registered
Joseph also went from the town of
Nazareth and in Galilee to Judea to the
City of David called Bethlehem because
he was a descendant from the house and
the family of David he went to be
registered with Mary to whom he was
engaged and who was expecting a child
while they was there the time came for
her to deliver her child and she gave
birth to her firstborn son and wrapped
him in bands of cloth and laid him in a
manger because there was no place for
them in the end
in that region there were Shepherds
living in the fields keeping watch over
their flock by night and then the angel
of the Lord stood before them and the
glory of the Lord shone around them and
they were terrified but the angel said
to them do not be afraid for see I'm
bringing you good news of great joy for
all the people to you Is Born This Day
in the City of David a savior who is the
Messiah the Lord this will be a sign for
you you will find a child wrapped in
bands of cloth and lying in a manger
and suddenly there was with the angel a
multitude of heavenly hosts praising God
and saying glory to God in the highest
heavens
and on earth peace among those whom he
favors when the angel had left them and
had gone into heaven the Shepherd's said
to one another let us go now to
Bethlehem and see this great thing that
has taken place which the Lord has made
known to us and so they went with haste
and found Mary and Joseph and the child
lying in a manger and when they saw this
they made known what had been told to
them about this child and all who heard
it were amazed at what the Shepherd's
told them but Mary treasured all these
words and pondered them in her heart the
Shepherd's returned glorifying and
praising God for all that they had heard
and seen and had been told to them this
is the Word of God for the people of God
go tell go ahead
one more time
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with that message go tell it on
the mountain there's a story that I came
across a man by the name of Adam he was
trained as a classical pianist he went
to a conservatory for music for nine
years practicing six hours a day he also
taught at the Graduate School while he
was trying to earn his doctorate degree
in music
however at age 26 despite all of the
training he dropped out of music his
parents could not believe it
his friend says what are you doing
everyone was shocked and mortified at
the loss of training the loss of the
financial investment and a disapproval
tone they says why world would you quit
Adam chose not to respond to their
question he never told anybody why he
dropped out what changed for him he
never said a word but he had a best
friend and his best friend says what's
going on what happened you can tell me
and he says you know I'm not really much
for public performances he said but yeah
you've done it all the time he said
there was a price to pay my arms would
lock up and I would have muscle spasms
so bad that sometimes I had to go to the
hospital
then I developed and also never felt
good but to play music it kept me in
pain and then he says playing the piano
it's no longer part of my future he
borrowed money from that friend and he
went to New York City with a new dream
he wanted to write a book about the
famous artist that he had studied but he
wanted to write it from a different
angle but what you need to hear is that
Adam never had written anything let
alone anything being published and then
he picked up the phone and he started
calling different agents and finally
someone took him on and he landed a
substantial book contract isn't it
interesting that months earlier he was
broke but listen my friends I think was
sad about their stories that even then
when he landed this great job
he had one friend that same friend is
the one that he shared it with I don't
know about you but I can think about
when my son was born I told everybody I
told everybody I knew I even told
strangers when I was in the grocery
store my son was born today this man
didn't tell anyone Christmas is the
celebration of the birth of Jesus and
it's interesting that God chose the
shepherds to share this great news part
of the great news is that Jesus had come
into the world
God the invisible is now beheld by
humanity God the intangible is now in
Mary's arms God the transcendent is now
God with us Emmanuel God an abstract
reality for many is now made concrete to
all who believe the angelic announcement
of the birth of the savior of the world
came not to Kings not to dignitaries not
to the rich or wealthy but it came to
the Shepherd's tending to their flocks
in the middle of the night why because
they were people who believed in God
they were people who trust in God do you
have a rock-solid faith in God but your
implicit question might be why did the
angels appear only to the Shepherd's
when Jesus was born and not to a vast
number of people didn't God want
everybody to know
that Jesus had been born God certainly
wanted every person on earth to know
that Jesus was born and had come into
the world but not only that he wanted
them to know that Jesus is the one who
will take away the sins of the world
Jesus is the one who will bring eternity
to humanity and in reality God was
preparing the process when Jesus was
born it was only the first step in God's
plan of salvation you remember from all
of eternity Jesus was with God in the
beginning was the word and the Word was
with God and the Word was God in the
beginning all things that were made was
made through him and not one thing was
made it goes down to verse 14 and it
says and he became flesh and dwelt among
us and now on that first Christmas day
that process began in reality God had
already been preparing the way but now
God has entered into our time and our
space God's process would be completed
in Jesus don't miss what God wanted to
do
why would God choose the shepherds
Shepherd's know how to be patient
shepherds are humble people
you see shepherds were treated
differently they were considered a low
of class of people shepherding was a
menial job but maybe it was God's Way of
saying that he came for all people
starting with the poor but he came for
the rich for male for female educated
and under uneducated by announcing Jesus
birth to the shepherds God was
demonstrating his love for all how many
of you are grateful about God's plan
anybody what if you had been present
that first Christmas night would you
have just gone on about your business
shopping and making preparations for
your family or would you have taken the
time to notice the Most High God
listen again shepherds were keeping the
flocks day and night in other words
doing what they've always done doing the
familiar the mundane but in the midst of
their ordinary life something
extraordinary happened God spoke through
his angels what did the Angels say don't
be afraid for I bring to you good news
good news of great joy not just for you
but for all people born to you this day
in the City of David a savior who is the
Messiah
here's the sign you'll find him wrap in
bands of cloth lying in a manger
and then scripture says suddenly let me
hear you say suddenly suddenly there was
a multitude of heavenly hosts praising
God and saying glory to God in the
highest of heavens and on earth peace to
those he favors it was an unmistakable
validation of God from heaven that Jesus
is his only begotten Son the angels left
and they went back into heaven and
notice what the Shepherd's said the
Shepherd says let us go and see this
great sight the Lord has made known to
us they didn't say let's go see this
great sight that the angels told us or
some astronomers they said let us go and
see this sight that the Lord has made
known
the shepherds became doers of the word
of God they heard it they listened and
then they did something when the
Shepherd's arrived they told Joseph and
Mary all that the Lord had shared with
them they told Mary about the heavenly
hosts and that Jesus being wrapped in
cloth would be the sign of what they
said was true but what I really like
about what God did was he sent the
shepherds to encourage Mary and Joseph
you know was nine months ago that the
angel visited Mary and Joseph and now
Jesus is born and God has a way of
encouraging us all amen so let's sing it
one more time
Oh
Mary treasured it all in the heart and
then the Shepherd's returned to their
homes praising and glorifying God full
of faith and full of B belief what do we
do when we hear the word of God do we
share it with someone else I'll never
forget I was at the back of the door I
was at another church not this church so
that you guys don't talk about this but
it was another church and a lady came to
the back of the door and she says Reb
that was a great sermon I said well I'm
glad that you enjoyed it she says I sure
wish my husband was here to hear it and
I said to myself wouldn't it be
interesting if the message was just for
you
what do you do when you hear the message
do you share it with someone else
scripture says they return to their
homes praising God and they told
everyone what they had seen and what
they heard that the message was indeed
for all people I conclude that Christmas
is also about faith and belief Hebrews
11 says faith is the substance of things
hoped for the evidence of things not
seen the Christian life
is about faith what I love about faith
is that we can purchase it we can't sell
it and we can't give it the Bible has
much more to say about faith and why
it's important in fact it is so
important that without it we can't
please God Hebrews 11 verse 6 faith is
not something that we conjure up on our
own nor is it something that we are born
with nor is faith just the result of
diligence faith is spiritual Ephesians 2
verses 8 through 9 makes it clear that
faith is a gift from God not because we
deserve it or that we have earned it or
that we are worthy to have it it is not
in and of ourselves it's from God
Almighty faith is simply given to us by
God along with his grace and His mercy
according to his holy plan in his holy
purpose
so we're gonna sing the first verse
surprise for God so loved the world that
He gave His only begotten Son that
whosoever believed in him would not
perish but would have everlasting life
the story of Christmas is truly
wonderful it's the greatest story ever
told and this Christmas holiday
hopefully it reminds you of God's love
even some of the metaphors points to God
the light reminds us of the one true
light that has come into the world
gifts remind us that God gave us His
only begotten Son
because He loves us and he wants to be
in relationship with us so I urge you
this Christmas season to reflect upon
what Christmas is really all about Jesus
is the reason for the season do you
believe it let us pray
most gracious God you are truly an
awesome God you have a way of blessing
a wonderful way of extending your love
and grace to us Lord you are merciful
loving and kind we get to celebrate
Christmas because of your love we have
been set free from our sins because of
your love Lord are we going to go home
and unwrapped gifts tomorrow some will
start tonight but let us never forget
the gift of your love your desire to be
in relationship with us and through
Jesus that has been accomplished Father
we pray for our sick and I'll shut in
for all the leaders of this church we
pray a blessing upon them Father we pray
a blessing upon our volunteers all of
our staff and we thank you because we
get the opportunity to serve you in
great ways and now let us pray that
prayer that Jesus taught his disciples
our Father who art in heaven hallowed be
thy name
but deliver us from evil for thine is
the kingdom and the power and the glory
8 through 11 hear the word of the Lord
the Spirit of the Lord is upon me
because the Lord has anointed me he has
sent me to bring good news to the
oppressed to bind up the brokenhearted
to proclaim Liberty to the captives and
release to the prisoners
to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor
and the day of vengeance of our God to
comfort all who mourn to provide for
those who mourn in Zion to give them a
gallon instead of ashes the oil of
gladness instead of mourning the mantle
of praise instead of a faint spirit they
will be called oaks of righteousness the
planting of the Lord to display his
glory they shall build up ancient ruins
they shall raise up the former
devastations they shall repair the
ruined cities for I the Lord love
justice
I hate robbery and wrongdoing and I will
faithfully give them their recompense I
will make an everlasting covenant with
them their descendants shall be known
among the nation's and their offspring
among the peoples all who see them shall
acknowledge that they are the people
from whom God the Lord has blessed I
will greatly rejoice in the Lord my
whole being shall exult in my God for he
has clothed me with the garments of
salvation he has covered me with the
robe of righteousness as a bridegroom
decks himself with the garland and as a
bride adorns herself with jewels
for the earth brings forth shoots and as
the garden causes what is sown in it to
spring up so the Lord God will cause
righteousness and praise to spring up
before all the nations the Word of God
for the people of God thank you good
morning I want to take a moment and just
think everyone here at Providence for
all of the cards and all of your prayers
during the time in the passing of my
sister thank you very much I felt your
prayers Believe It or Not because the
Lord is always with us amen
I want to talk to you this morning about
the Spirit of the Lord see often we
think of the spirit and the anointing of
God as just maybe a passing fancy or
have little concern of the everyday
experience or encounter of the Spirit of
God say we like to soak in prayer like
Mother Teresa we'd like to come together
and we we sing songs and praise to the
Lord we feel good when we do things
because we have come to believe that
this is what a good spirit-filled
Christian is supposed to do amen
although these essential practices for
the Christian life but there is so much
more in our passage today we see that
God raises up a prophet to give the
people a new hope of the coming Messiah
a prophet endowed with the Holy Spirit
and anointing to bring a word that
transforms poverty into prosperity a
word that restores broken hearts a word
to bring beauty out of ashes this word
from God came at a time when people felt
that they were forgotten
they were unloved and abandoned sort of
like our world is today but God has a
plan
because there is no way that we can save
ourselves God in His mercy took matters
into his own hands he sent a redeemer
who was the Messiah
the Jews were patiently waiting for that
Messiah came when Jesus was born in
Bethlehem then 30 years after that Jesus
started his work and what are the first
things that he did was to preach in his
hometown in the synagogue to make clear
what his mission was he used a text from
Isaiah and he read in Luke he said and
the stroll of the prophet Isaiah was
given to him he unrolled the scroll and
found the place where it was written the
Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he
has anointed me to bring good news to
the poor he has sent me to proclaim
release to the captives and recovery of
sight to the blind to let the oppressed
go free to proclaim the year of the
Lord's favor and he rolled up the scroll
gave it back to the attendant and sat
down now all of the eyes of everybody in
the synagogue was fixed on him and Jesus
said today this scripture has been
fulfilled do you know the scripture has
been fulfilled amen
you see as Isaiah had foretold Jesus
came to proclaim the good news he came
to bind up the brokenhearted because of
sin and to proclaim freedom and the year
of the Lord's favor he paid the debt for
your sin and for mine I want us to look
at the root cause of the oppression and
captivity we experience in our daily
lives Jesus comes to proclaim freedom
for the captives and that means we need
to first ask what is keeping you captive
from living the life God created for you
and being the person God created you to
be
I want you to take a moment think about
that what is it that's keeping you
captive what is it in your life because
Jesus came and you are free in Christ
what is it that you want Jesus to free
you from today because I tell you Church
the Spirit of the Lord is upon us in
helps us in our weakness sometimes we
get a little bit weak but we do not know
how to pray as we are anybody ever been
there but that very spirit intercedes
with sighs too deep for words and God
who searches the heart knows what is the
mind of the Spirit because the spirit
intercedes for the saints according to
the will of God you see sometimes there
would be circumstances and situations in
our lives and we don't know what to do
or what to pray and sometimes you have
to get in a quiet place and there are no
words all you can do is just moan and
sometimes you got to moan a good old
spiritual him anybody ever been there I
know it's not just me I've been there
you can't find the words and you don't
know what to do but you got to get there
to God and you know the only way to get
there is to get by yourself and silence
the noise but there are no words to say
but the Spirit of the Lord will give you
the utterance amen so you may not know
what to do but there is something
incredible that happens when the Spirit
of the Lord shows up the spirit brings a
word to solve your problems the spirit
brings a word to undo predicaments and
heal your pains the Spirit comes with a
word that transform lives and
communities the Spirit comes with the
word to resolve and to restore the
spirit come with the word to
change and to challenge us the spirit
comes with the word to rescue and reveal
God's power the spirit comes with a
vision and provision for all of your
needs the Spirit brings a word of hope a
word of help when the Spirit of the Lord
comes he brings light out of the
darkness I want to tell you a brief
story I read a story about a father with
three sons and he tried an interesting
experiment with them he said he would
give his entire inheritance to the one
who could fill a room completely with
something they could buy for only a few
dollars the first son brought feathers
but was not able to completely fill the
room with them because they kept packing
down the second son he brought straw but
found it was taking a lot of money in
the room and was still not filled the
third son in all of his wisdom he bought
one candle and one match and lit the
candle and filled the room with light
Jesus is the light which shines in the
darkness of our world
he gives us security in this life and
the life to come it is the will of God
that every believer of Christ is
equipped with the Holy Spirit to
continue to carry the ministry and the
work of Christ Jesus in his natural body
is no longer here but I tell you the
Spirit of the Lord is here see Jesus
said in John 14 and I will ask the
Father and He will give you another
advocate to be with you forever
this is the Spirit of Truth whom the
world cannot receive because it neither
sees him nor knows him you know him
because he abides with you and he will
be in you amen
you see everyone who has accepted Jesus
Christ as our Lord and Savior
has the Spirit of the Lord that's you
and that's me Church turn to your
neighbor and tell them the Spirit of the
Lord is upon you I want to tell you the
good news this morning you and I as
disciples of Jesus are anointed to give
and given authority over the evils of
this world we have been given a garland
instead of ashes the oil of gladness
instead of mourning and a mantle of
praise instead of a faint spirit you
have received the crown of righteousness
they have been anointed with oil which
concentrates you would authority and
power you're not just to be recipients
of the freedom he bestows on us but you
are to share that freedom with others on
behalf of Christ just remember when you
share Christ people would try to take
your joy they would try to take your
energy your hope and your dreams but
they can't because you must rise up in
the name of Christ and follow in the
footsteps of Jesus
you see we're going to have
circumstances and situations in our
lives
the tsunami as I like to call it is
going to come but there will be those
who'll be swallowed up by the tsunami
but because you have the Holy Spirit you
will be able to ride the wave of the
tsunami because the Spirit of the Lord
is upon you amen let us pray most
gracious God we thank you this morning
for your word father let your word do
what you sent it forth to do we think
that you continue to touch each and
every life and let them know that the
Spirit of the Lord is with them and
father we thank you and we praise you in
Jesus name Amen
I came across something and the author
is unknown but it talks about the
enemy's perfect plan to keep us
unprepared the enemy's perfect plan to
keep us unprepared Satan called the
worldwide convention and his opening
address to his evil angels he says we
can't keep Christians from going to
church we can't keep them from reading
their Bibles and knowing the truth we
can't even keep them from their
conservative values but we can do
something else we can keep them from
forming an intimate abiding relationship
with Jesus Christ if they gained that
connection with Jesus our power over
them is broken so let them go to church
let them have their conservative
lifestyles but steal their time so that
they can gain this personal relationship
with Jesus Christ this is what I want
you to do angels distract them from
getting hold of their Savior and
maintaining that vital connection how
shall we do it they shout it keep them
busy in the non-essentials of life and
invent unnumbered schemes to occupy
their minds tempt them to spin
spend spend and then to borrow borrow
borrow convince the wives to go to work
for long hours and the husbands to work
six or seven days a week 10 to 12 hours
a day so that they can't even afford
their lifestyles keep them from spending
time with their children and as the
family fragments soon the home will
offer no excandesco they can't hear that
still small voice from God entice them
to play the radio whenever they drive
and when at home keep the TVs the DVDs
and the PCs going constantly see to it
that every store in restaurants fill
their coffee tables with magazines and
newspapers pound their minds with
negative news 24 hours a day
invade their driving moments with
negative billboards flood their
mailboxes with junk mail sweepstakes
mail orders catalogs and every kind of
newsletter and promotional offering and
free products and false hopes that we
can offer even in their recreation let
them be excessive have them returned
from their recreation exhausted
disquieted and unprepared for the coming
weeks don't let them go out into nature
to reflect on God's wonders God's
goodness but
to amusement parks sporting events
concerts movies instead and when they
meet for spiritual support involve them
in gossip small talk so that they leave
with troubled minds and unsettled
emotions let them be involved in
soul-winning but crowd their minds with
so many good causes well they will have
no time to seek the power of Christ soon
they'll be working in their own power in
their own strength sacrificing their
health and the family unity for the good
of the cause conclusion it was quite a
convention in the end and the evil
angels went eagerly about their
assignments causing Christians
everywhere to get busy busy busy and to
rush from here and there from here and
there my question this morning says the
devil been successful in his schemes you
be the judge
it's an allegory it's a story to get us
to think about how we spend our time
what we spend our time on whether we've
made God the real priority in our lives
it's an allegory to get us to think
about what's really important in this
season of Advent the most important
preparation that we can make in this
Advent season and this
Christmas season is to prepare our
hearts my friends that's what John did
the Baptizer he appeared in the
wilderness proclaiming a baptism of
repentance in the forgiveness of sins
people came from everywhere to hear him
they walk John told them get your heart
right get your heart right with God now
he was a little weird I must admit he
lived out in the desert he was clothed
with camel's hair and a leather belt
around his waist he ate locusts and wild
honey bye my friend he knew his mission
and he didn't get distracted as
sometimes we can be distracted what I
like about John the Baptist was he
didn't have an inflated sense of self he
knew who he was you know some people
think that if they don't show up for
church church ain't gonna happen hello
John did not have an inflated sense of
who he was he just wanted to be used by
God what I like about John the Baptist
is that he didn't care whether he fit
and you know there's so many of us we
want to be liked by everybody John
didn't care about being liked he just
wanted to share the good news he wanted
people to prepare their hearts for God
that's
was his mission what I like about John
the Baptist was that he didn't get
caught up in all the trappings of what
goes on the stores the shopping the
material things he was out in the desert
in a dry place void of a life of too
much so that he can give his time to his
mission you know many people heard his
message many people turned their lives
over to God because John was serious
about telling people that they needed to
get their heart right not the outward
appearance but what really goes on on
the inside you know is God number one in
our lives is God the real priority and
John would say if God is night it's not
then we need to pray about it talking
about preparing our hearts listen to
proverbs 4 verses 23 through 26 it
instructs believers to above all else
guard your hearts for everything that
you do flows from it keep your mouth
free from perverse language keep corrupt
talk far from your lips let your eyes
look straight ahead fix your gaze
directly before you give careful thought
to your paths for your feet
be fit be steadfast in all of your ways
when Solomon wrote this guarding the
heart he was really talking about the
inner core of a person the God our
thoughts our feelings our desires and I
will our choices because that's what
makes us who we are the Bible says that
often our thoughts will dictate who we
become I want to read this again to you
but I want to read it to you from the
message keep vigilant watch over your
heart that's where life starts don't
talk out of both sides of your mouth
avoid careless banter white lies and
gossip keep your eyes straight ahead
ignore all sideshow distractions watch
your step and the road will stretch out
smooth before you look neither to your
right nor to your left
leave evil in the dust think
that's a good word for us this morning
as we prepare our hearts for Advent so
often we want to rush ahead and we want
to get to Christmas and we want to talk
about baby Jesus but maybe in our
preparation as sherry shared with us
there's some things that we need to do
in order to prepare our hearts I was
thinking about sometimes how there can
be physical ailments of the heart and
that they can also be true in the
spiritual realm there is what they call
the hardening of the heart where there's
a hardening of the arteries due to
accumulate a cholesterol plaque scarring
of the artery walls but there's also a
hardening of the spiritual heart the
hardening of the heart can occur occur
when we are presented with God's truth
and we at fuse we refuse to acknowledge
it or accept it there are many things
that can harden the heart that can lead
us to even deny the God that we claim to
love just as there things that blocked
the blood flow the hardening of the
spiritual heart of a believer can block
the flow of God's pleased God's
blessings upon Allah guarding against a
rebellious spirit and cultivating a
spirit of submissive submissive
obedience to God is what is needed in
the natural heart in the natural sense
there are heart murmurs in the spiritual
sense there's also heart murmurs that
can occur when believers become
complainers hello
you ever meet somebody and you say how
you're doing and you wish you didn't ask
them how they're doing anybody knew I'm
talking about because they want to tell
you about every ailment they have oh you
know I got up this morning and I I felt
something and and it's like we give the
devil more praise than we give God
anybody know what I'm talking about but
in the season of Advent let us God
against having a complaining spirit and
cultivate a spirit of gratitude and of
Trustee feegans for verses 31 and 32
says get rid of all bitterness rage
anger cell-phones brawling and slanter
forgiving each other just as Christ
forgave us the Apostle Paul says it this
way finally brothers and sisters
whatever is true whatever is noble
whatever is right whatever is pure
whatever is lovely whatever is admirable
if anything is excellent or praiseworthy
think about these things think about
what God has done for us think about
God's perfect plan to send His only
begotten Son so that we might have a
relationship with him Advent is a season
of preparing some of you are you have
family coming to visit you you've got
all sorts of guests coming so I don't
really need to talk to you about
preparing because you know what you have
to do and changing the sheets and
getting new pillows on the on the bed
pillowcases and cleaning the rooms and
getting food prepared well just like you
will prepare for guests
prepare your heart for the coming of
Christ your heart is the place where
price wish to dwell may be this is the
season where we would forgive stuff
we've been holding on to for a long time
to just let it go let God step in and
begin to heal your heart came across the
story of a professor from Southwestern
Baptist Theological Seminary and he was
preaching in the Nevada
he was normally a reserved person but
while he was preaching he put his whole
heart into the sermon and he called the
people in the congregation to repent and
to get their hearts right with God and
he was so passionate in his preaching he
declared you need to repent and turn
from your sin buster if you're here and
your heart is not right come down to the
altar now an invitation was given the
professor joined the pastor of the
church and it was a young man who came
down and he says my name is buster and I
want to get my heart right with God let
us prepare our hearts for advant don't
allow any
thing to steal your time away don't get
bogged down in the non-essentials and
remember that the enemy wants to keep us
busy busy busy the enemy wants us to
spend spend spend the enemy wants us to
borrow borrow borrow the enemy wants us
to rush from here and there let us
prepare our hearts for avid amen
let us pray Lord we adore you we love
your plan we love the sacrifice that you
made on our behalf so that you would
send your only begotten Son that whoever
should believe in Him should not perish
but have everlasting life eternal life
with you Lord you're such a good God
that you know how to give your children
good gifts all good gifts come from
above and we know it father we thank you
that you are God who walks beside us
does it mean that we are exempt from
troubles but our troubles won't crush us
because your grace is there Lord you
said that your grace would be sufficient
for us no matter what we go through and
that we can pray in every circumstance
father more than anything else you
promised to be with us always even to
the ends of the age Lord we lift up our
sick and our shut-in
dub brother Kari who was struggling his
wife Linda we lift up Janice Malloy and
father those who are grieving we prayed
that you might continue to touch their
hearts chase away the dark clouds
restore the joy of their salvation
father we thank you for Providence
United Methodist Church and for all of
the leaders in this place we thank you
for your team I call them your team but
staff here at church we thank you for
every volunteer who comes to offer their
time in their energy in their resources
and now let us pray that prayer that
Jesus taught his disciples our Father
who aren't Heaven hallowed be thy name
thy kingdom come thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power and the
glory forever and ever amen
may be ashes
Challenge of discipleship here in the
parable of the Last Judgement what makes
some blessed is the fact that though
they didn't realize that in seeing the
poor and helping them they saw and
helped Jesus because they had a
relationship with Jesus and by contrast
what makes others curse is that they
never really did see Jesus suffering and
in need because they never really saw
the poor because they never had a
relationship with Jesus Christ so how do
we identify those who are really
disciples of Jesus Christ it's important
to realize calling Jesus Lord doesn't
necessarily mean you have a relationship
with him amen
in Matthew chapter 7 it talks about not
everyone who says to me Lord Lord would
enter into the kingdom of heaven only
the one who does the will of my father
in heaven in the story about the sheep
and goats people call Jesus Lord Lord
when did we see you hungry or thirsty or
a stranger or needing clothes or sick or
in prison and did or did not help you
Jesus responds truly I tell you just as
you did it to one of the least of these
who are members of my family you did it
to me that is the challenge of
discipleship you see it is the
relationship that's important to Jesus
not the words out of our mouths when you
have a relationship with Jesus Christ
you begin to take on the characteristics
of Christ when you see someone hungry
you will give them food and when you see
someone thirsty you will give them water
when you see a stranger you will welcome
him in when you see someone in need of
clothing you will give them clothes
when you see someone who is sick or in
prison you will go and visit them
because you've taken on the
characteristics of Christ you are a true
disciple of Jesus Christ when we call
Jesus Lord is a matter of the heart even
if you do things in his name but you
really haven't surrendered to his
ownership to his plan or to his
authority it's just empty works like the
religious Pharisees you can be outwardly
obedient but inwardly self-focused
doing stuff can make us feel good
you can like we've earned Jesus Grace
but relationships are harder they take
humbling ourselves becoming open and
transparent they take time and effort
and understanding let me give you a
brief example do you ever find yourself
doing or saying things that your parents
did or said and you said I'm never gonna
do the head I'm never going to say that
I do and you catch yourself oh my god
that's what my mother father used to say
that's what they used to do you laughing
because you know it's true what about
your relationship with your husband or
with your wife with your boyfriend or
your girlfriend that relationship takes
time to nurture doesn't it it takes
effort it takes work sort of like your
relationship with Jesus Christ
that's the challenge of discipleship but
there is something that we better
consider Church we call ourselves
disciples of Jesus Christ and that is
the commandment that he left us in John
13 he says a new commandment I give to
you that you love one another as I have
loved you that you also love one another
and by this all will know that you are
my disciples if you have love for one
another
I love like Jesus a love that exists
because he loved us and now through that
relationship it flows through us to
others we take on the characteristics of
Christ and we do as he would do and let
me ask you how do we love those who are
broken and hurting around us sometimes
that's hard sure we can cut our best
friend's yard when he's on vacation yes
you can help your buddy when his truck
breaks down but you don't have to be a
real disciple of Christ to do those
things do you being a disciple of Jesus
Christ changes how we love people we are
called to love those that are hard to
love like Jesus did some of us was hard
to love amen having Jesus as our Lord
and King means we live by the rules of a
kingdom different from this world we are
in this world but not of this world a
man church let me tell you a story one
night a woman dreamed that she was
having a conversation with God can
anybody relate to this she was angry
about all the suffering and evils she
saw around her so she complained to the
Lord she said God why don't you do
something about all of this and God
quietly respond I did I created you
what a great response when we look in
the book of Luke chapter 10 Jesus talks
about a certain man that was traveling
from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among
thieves and was stripped of his clothing
and wounded and they departed and they
left him half dead and he talks about a
priest that came down the road and saw
the man and he crossed over on the other
side then there was a Levite that came
down that same road and saw the man
laying there and he he crossed on the
other side but a certain Samaritan
saw the man there as he was journeying
along and he he saw him and he had
compassion on that man so he went and he
bent is the man's wound and he poured
oil and wine on him and he set him on
his animal and he brought him to an inn
and he took care of him and the next
morning he went to the innkeeper and he
told him take care of him and whatever
you spend I'll repay you when I return
that's a true disciple of Jesus Christ
Church we are never ever called to be
people to go to church in order to feel
good about our righteousness amen we are
called to be people who go into the
world to share the love of our Savior
and then come together to celebrate his
glory and His goodness Jesus very
clearly let us know that the difference
between religious people and those who
have a genuine relationships with him
can be identified by the fruit they bear
like the difference between the sheep's
and the goats the Shepherd knows the
difference the challenge of discipleship
in Luke 14 he says but when you give a
feast invite the poor the maimed the
lame the blind he said and you will be
blessed because they cannot repay you
for you shall be repaid at the
resurrection of the just this is what
Jesus taught
it's how he lived it's the example he
set for us he lived his ministry this
way and gave His Holy Spirit to empower
his disciples to live the same way we
are the disciples of Jesus Christ
you see loving the broken and hurting
doesn't save us good deeds are not the
root of our salvation loving the broken
and hurting are the fruit of our
salvation because we are intimately
connected to Jesus you see he is the
vine and we are the branches we take on
the carry
turistic of Christ's when we are
connected to him they meant let me tell
you a little story in October in 1993 in
the town of Worchester Massachusetts
police found a woman dead on her kitchen
floor there was no ordinary discovery
she had been dead for four years
police speculated she died at age 73 of
natural causes that's when her bank
transactions ended how can someone be so
cut off from relationships that no one
even notices when he or she dies it's a
sad thing Church but to some extent it
was a mistake you see according to the
Associated Press four years earlier
neighbors had called authorities when
they sense something might be wrong when
the police contacted the woman's brother
he says she had gone into a nursing home
police told the postal service to stop
delivering mail to her house one
neighbor paid her grandson to cut the
grass because the place was looking
rundown another neighbor had the utility
company come and cut the water off when
a pipe froze broke and sent water
spilling out the door to a great extent
though it was not a mistake one friend
from the past said she didn't want
anyone bothering her at all I guess she
got her wish but it's awfully sad her
brother said the family hadn't been
close since their mother died in 1979 he
added someone should have noticed
something before now yeah someone should
have even if someone is hard to get
along with or doesn't want to be
bothered we still have to go and knock
on that door we still have to go and see
if they're okay that's what a true
disciple of Jesus Christ would do that
is us church amen
you see at the end of the day we have to
have an intimate relationship with Jesus
Christ we can't put it on anybody else
we have to be the true disciples of
Christ and love one another so come let
us inherit the kingdom prepared for us
from the foundation of the world that is
the challenge of discipleship let us
pray
most gracious God we access to save us
from being self-centered in our deeds
and our prayers and teach us to remember
to help and pray for others may we be so
bound up in love with those for whom we
pray that we may feel their knees as our
own and intercede for them with
sensitiveness with understanding and
with imagination for this in Christ that
we pray amen amen
I'm from The Book of Isaiah chapter 43
verses 18 through 21 he says do not
remember the former things or consider
the things of old I am about to do a new
thing now it springs forth do you not
perceive it I will make a way in the
wilderness and rivers in the desert the
wild animals will honor me the Jackals
and the ostriches for I give water in
the wilderness rivers in the desert to
give drink to my chosen people the
people whom I formed for myself so that
they might declare my praise the Word of
God for the people of God thanks be to
God
let us pray most gracious God I'm a
sinner saved by your grace I am a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name we pray amen
how many of you remember nursery rhymes
that will probably read to you at
bedtime anybody some of them are little
frightening aren't they I mean three
blind mice three blind mice three blind
mice see how they run see how they run
they all ran after the farmer's wife who
cut off their tails with a carving knife
did you ever see such a sight in your
life as three blind mice now I don't
know about you but as a little kid I had
a picture of these mice trying to move
around they couldn't see and this crazy
woman chasing them around with a
butcher's knife and then your mother say
sweet dreams son have a good night mom I
don't think I'm gonna have a good night
but God is doing a new thing there's a
Christian book called the Christian book
of Mother Goose who changed three blind
mice to three kind mice three kind mice
see what they've done they helped the
chick to find their mother hen they
brought food to the church mice and
helped clean the house of Jenny and Wren
those three kind mice now it didn't
rhyme but it's better than what it was
God is doing a new thing and then what
about Humpty Dumpty Humpty Dumpty sat on
a wall Humpty Dumpty had a great fall
all the king's horses and all the king's
men couldn't this big egg would a face
on it arm sticking out and leg sticking
out of an egg and that was the image you
saw before bedtime now I don't know
about you but let me tell you how my
mind works Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall who
pushed him I don't know about but I
think like that somebody pushed Humpty
Dumpty he didn't just fall off the wall
but we don't talk about that but yet
according to the story no one could put
him back together again the rhyme was
designed to lament the fact
that humanity has fallen and not even
the most powerful people on earth the
king himself nor his army nor his wise
men were able to put all the broken
pieces back together again my friends
humanity is broken and who can fix it no
person on this earth only God can take
tragedy and turn it into triumph only
God can take worry and replace it by
worship God says behold I make all
things new
God is ready to do a new thing in my
life in your life and the life of this
church do you perceive it I've got one
person who went to Sunday school but
it's alright
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall Humpty
Dumpty had a great fall
humpty dumpty shouted amen and God put
him back together again God is doing a
new thing amen
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall Humpty
Dumpty had a great fall all the king's
horses and all the king's men couldn't
put Humpty back together again but
listen to this but Along Came the king
and he touch Humpty's soul only the king
could make Humpty whole but only the
King can heal you again ridore rejoice
Humpty Dumpty there's a reason to sing
God loves broken people go to the king I
want to challenge your thinking with the
thought God is doing a new thing my
I want you to get this in your spirit
this is juicy because it's telling us
that if we hang on to the old thing and
we won't let it ago we cannot receive
the new thing that God has for us so I
want you to just let it go open your
minds and your heart your spirit to the
new thing that God wants to do the
background of this text the prophet
Isaiah
it's talking to the people of Israel he
came to them at a bleak time in their
history they're in captivity they've
lost everything and now they're homesick
for the land and the blessing that God
had promised them listen forget the
former things do not dwell on the past
see I'm doing a new thing now and it
springs up do you not perceive it I'm
making a new way in the wilderness and
streams and the wasteland
behold I make all things new today is a
good day today is a good day to dream a
new dream to have a new vision to place
your hope in God today is a good day
tell your neighbor today is a good day
just touch them and say today is a good
day today is a good day because God is
doing a new thing in chapter 43 the
prophet Isaiah is doing what he does
best he serves as a mouthpiece for the
Lord during the most trying times in the
history of Israel at this time the
Israelites are held captive in Babylon
and they are at their lowest point that
not only discouraged that the fee
it deflated depressed has anyone ever
been there have you ever been depressed
have you ever looked for a better day
anybody have you ever called upon God
and said God I've had enough you know
they say trials and tribulations come to
make us strong sometimes my prayers God
I'm strong enough I don't need any more
trials I don't know about you but here
the people the Israelites are in
captivity and the prophet Isaiah he
brings them a message and chapter 43 and
verse 1 he tells them that he is the
creator the one who's made them out of
nothing in verse 3 he tells them that is
that he is the Lord that he is the one
who loves them and that they're precious
in His sight and verse 14 he tells them
that he is the Redeemer and that he's
all that they need while in bondage and
he is the holy one he's the one who has
kept all of his promises I don't know
about you but if I'm facing a difficult
time and God said to me that I'm with
you I will be with you I've blessed you
in the past and I'll bless you in the
future I don't know about you but that
would sure enough be reassuring to me
and if that's not enough then in verse
16 and 17 he reminds them of the great
things that he's done that he's brought
them out of bondage out of Egypt that he
parted the Red Sea that he made a
highway for his people on drag on dry
ground and that he dealt with all of
their enemies verse 18 says forget about
your past
forget about
the former things don't think about it
in other words God says you haven't seen
anything yet just let me do what I'm
going to do
Providence do you perceive it do you
perceive in your spirit that God is
going to do something great right here
in our lives in the lives of this
community or you living on a past
experience you're still talking about
what you used to do oh you know we used
to have a clothes closet and we used to
have a pantry we used to as if God can't
do anything new Issac preached a message
last week and it was a prophetic message
if you asked me but he told us to pass
the baton and he alluded in his message
that the Saints of old continued to pass
the baton and that we need to do the
same thing how many of you know that God
won't drive a parked car anybody but the
Spirit of God is dynamic is fluent if
God is always up to something good he's
always up to taking us to new levels to
new heights and just when you think it's
over that's when God shows up and he
does something incredible Natalia and I
went to Saint Peter's College and that's
where we met that's what she chased
after me you can talk to her about that
later
but we had a friend there and this young
man was he's just an incredible person
he's an incredible human being you can't
really say anything bad about him but
this young man was probably 24 25 at the
time he lived in the projects the
projects is not a good place to live
it's a tough place to live rats and
roaches and violence
this guy was going to school full-time
at st. Peter's College and working a
full-time job and one day he said to me
he says Derrick I'm gonna move my family
out of the projects
my mom my two brothers and my sister and
I'm gonna move them into a nice home his
dad was not a part of his life sound
good it would sound lofty but I'll be
honest with you I didn't believe him
because it just seemed too hard it was
too big too big for him but let me tell
you what happened the next year he came
to Natalia and he says would you help me
move and I said where are you moving he
says I told you that I was gonna buy a
house and I was going to move my family
out of the projects my friends he did it
he moved them out of the projects into a
beautiful home in a really really nice
neighborhood you see in his spirit he
perceived that God was going to do this
great thing for him and he began to
trust God for it and he slayed a big
giant that day what about you are you
ready for God to do something great in
your life now you got to have strong
faith to do what I'm asking you to do
how many of you know that without faith
it's impossible to please God
that's what scripture says so you got to
come to God with nada
I hope so kind of faith now I wish kind
of faith but I know that God is able to
do anything but fail how many of you
have that kind of faith there's no
failure in God and that's the kind of
faith that our friend had do you have
the kind of faith that will allow God to
use failures and setbacks to set us up
for something greater do you have the
kind of faith that tells you that even
in your darkest hour that God is bigger
and greater than any enemy that you'll
ever face do you have the kind of faith
that says that every good and perfect
gift comes from above to experience
something new and amazing you got to
have that kind of faith the size of a
mustard seed and scripture says that we
can do things that we couldn't even
imagine romans 12 verses 1 and 2 says I
beseech you therefore brethren by the
mercies of God that ye present your body
as a living sacrifice holy and
acceptable unto God be not conformed to
this world but be transformed by the
renewing of your mind sometimes we got
to change the pattern of our thinking if
we think that it's never going to happen
it probably won't happen if you think
that this is always the way it's been
it's probably going to be the way it's
going to be we've got to trust God to do
something new are you open do you
perceive in your spirit that God wants
to do something new and you something
new and me something new in this church
in this community I don't know about you
either but I perceive it I can feel it I
know that this is my time this is our
time to do something great right here
right now I perceive it just like my
buddy did he knew that God can do what
most people would say is impossible
impossible means it just hasn't been
done yet do you perceive it in your
spirit in your home that God is ready to
do a new thing yes
he said now it springs up do you not
perceive it I'm making a way in the
wilderness and streams in the desert
single Dyneema Kirkland had a powerful
song and here are some of the lyrics
what do you do when you've done all you
can and it seems like it's never enough
and what do you say when your friends
turn away and you're all alone what do
you give when you've given your all and
it seems like you can't make it through
when there's nothing left to do you just
stand watch the Lord to see you through
after you've done all you can do you
stand that's what I want us to get in
our spirit it's not over until God says
it's over amen it's not over until God
says it's over you know what we need to
deal with today in our United Methodist
Church there's so many of us where we're
living by fear and not by faith the
world tells us what is going to be and
we buy into it but when we walk by faith
hallelujah we'll cry out to them and say
Lord what is it that you have for us
where is it that you want to take us and
we'll trust God's Word more than we
begin to trust the world you know
sometimes we give the devil more credit
than we give God oh my friends Jesus
says when he rose he took all power not
some power but that he has all power my
friend God doesn't want us to live on a
past experience he wants us to trust him
to do something new and that's what was
happening to the Israelites they could
look back and they said you know we've
come out of the land of Egypt we've
conquered the land
Kanan we fought off per prospective
conquerors we survived the split in our
country but now we're in captivity and
what do we do you see those victories
meant nothing to what they were going
through except to see the faithfulness
of God do you perceive in your spirit
that God wants to do something new now
let me just say that I know somebody's
thinking well it was God who took his
hand of grace off them and when God took
his hand of grace off them that's why
they became captives in the first place
but here's what happened if we gonna
tell the story we gotta tell the whole
story amen and what happened was God had
blessed his people he gave them a temple
and they began to do idol worship God
gave them truth and they began to
proclaim a lie
God gave them his commands and they
lived as though they were suggestions
God gave them wealth and they used it to
abuse the poor God gave them himself and
they rejected God here's what I want you
to hear more than anything we serve a
loving God we serve a gracious God who
wants a relationship with us and this
God he always works in the cohort ative
he says do this so that I might bless
you Derek do this so that I might bless
you because God wants to bless us he's a
God who wants
give us children good gifts he doesn't
want to punish us and so here God is
talking to the people of Israel says
don't forget I've blessed you don't
forget I want a relationship with you
don't forget I want to do a new thing in
your life don't you perceive it I'll
make a highway in the desert I'll make a
stream in the desert I'll do it for you
just when you begin to think that
nothing's happening I don't know if
you've ever been there when you think
nothing's happening
something you prayed about it's not
moving fast enough have you ever been
there that's when God shows up that's
when he says do you perceive it I'm
going to do a new thing and I'm gonna
show you what I'll do I'm gonna take a
moment of privilege to just say hi to
the creasy's over here they've been
married for 67 years 67 years let's
celebrate
I imagine it was every day of getting up
and seeing God do a new thing in your
life and and and one day took on another
that another day and year by year and
before you knew it you're looking at 60
seven years of marriage amen
what was it gray and Sarah Moore is 68
68 years they're pointing to each other
this is awesome that you guys are here
one day at a time one day at a time
getting up every day one day at a time
to see God doing a new thing in their
lives
my friends don't you perceive it that
God wants to do something new right here
right now in your life in the life of
this church I don't know if you perceive
it but I feel it Isaac do you feel it do
you feel it are you with me church Isaac
I'm gonna ask you to come and lead us in
prayer would you take the hand of your
neighbor next to you never know what
your neighbor is going through we all
look good on the outside but a whole lot
could be going on on the inside amen we
are the body of Christ and when we touch
hands and we hold hands it says we were
in agreement what God is going to do
Isaac can you lead us amen
turn to your neighbor and say God is
doing a new thing God is doing a new
thing he is doing a new thing in our
lives he's doing a new thing in
Providence United Methodist Church today
live in this moment thank you because it
is real it is real Church
let us pray let's gracious God we thank
you this morning God we thank you for
this word the word that you have brought
unto your people and God we thank you
that you move modely by your spirit or
heavenly father God we thank you that
you are doing a new thing we thank you
for the new thing that you're doing
you're stirring up
some things God and you're bringing
forth your will and purpose in
Providence Lord we thank you for what
you're doing in each and every life hear
God continue to move mildly continue to
raise them up it doesn't matter how old
you are it doesn't matter how young you
are God is doing a new thing by his
spirit and he does not care about your
age but he is moving mightily right now
and God I thank you for what you're
doing we praise you and we honor you and
we give you all the glory and praise in
Jesus name Amen
our second reading is from the book of
Philippians chapter 3 verse 4 through 14
even though I too have reason for
confidence in the flesh if anyone else
has reason to be confident in the flesh
I have more circumcised on the eighth
day a member of the people of Israel of
the tribe of Benjamin a Hebrew born of
Hebrews as to the law a Pharisee as to
zeal a persecutor of the church as to
righteousness under the law blameless
yet whatever gains I had these I have
come to regard as lost because of Christ
more than that I regard everything as
loss because of the surpassing value of
knowing Christ Jesus my Lord for his
sake I have suffered the loss of all
things and I regard them as rubbish in
order that I may gain Christ and be
found in him not having a righteousness
of my own that comes from the law but
one that comes through faith in Christ
the righteousness from God based on
faith I want to know Christ and the
power of his resurrection and the
sharing of his sufferings by becoming
like him in his death if somehow I may
attain the resurrection from the dead
not that I have already obtained this or
have already reached the goal but I
press on to make it my own
because Christ Jesus has made me his own
beloved I do not consider that I have
my own but this one thing I do
forgetting what lies behind and
straining forward what
straining forward to what lies ahead I
press on towards the goal for the prize
of the heavenly call of God in Christ
Jesus this is the word of God for the
people of God let us pray most gracious
God I am a sinner saved by your grace
I'm a broken vessel but I know all you
have to do is say the word and I shall
be healed long enough to do your work
and to do your will hide this preacher
behind the cross that your people might
see you and not me that they might hear
you and not me let the words of my mouth
and the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength in my Redeemer
what's in Christ's name I pray amen
it's a hard passage to read today and
what I like about the Apostle Paul is
he's very direct I don't know about you
but I like people who are direct because
you never have to wonder what they're
thinking they'll tell you exactly what
they think amen anybody know what I'm
talking about and this is the way the
Apostle Paul is so typically I would
start with some kind of story to kind of
draw you in and then I will get into the
to the background of the text and so
forth but this is so juicy I had to to
jump into what I believe that this text
is really about the goal of the
Christian life is to know who Christ is
in Latin there's a phrase called Sunna
bounine which means the highest good out
of which all other good flow
scripture teaches that knowing God is
the highest good above all other good
things in life the highest good is not
in helping people helping people is good
but it's not the highest good giving
giving is good don't you stop giving
giving is good but it is not the highest
good one of the things that you learn
when we talk about giving is that Jesus
was not when he told the rich young
ruler to go and to sell all he wasn't
making a universal diagnosis that was a
individual indictment to that particular
person so wealth is not really the issue
but God must be primary the highest good
is not attaining knowledge some of us
you walk into our office me included we
have all of our work on our wall and
we're proud of that and that's good but
it's not the highest good the highest
good is to know God and out of knowing
God will flow everything that we need
let not the wise men boast about his
wisdom or the strong man boast about his
strength or the rich man boast about his
riches but let him who boasts boast
about this that they understand and know
who God is here the Lord says through
Jeremiah that the knowledge of him
should be our greatest pursuit God names
three of these more common pursuits of
men and women God names the pursuit of
wisdom as education is so important to
us in the world that we live in he names
the pursuit of strength as many give
themselves to the endeavor of developing
their bodies
as a form of great masculinity or
femininity he names the pursuit of
wealth but then he says the greatest
pursuit is understanding and knowing who
God is do you know who God is this
morning it's a rhetorical question you
don't have to answer it but I want you
to think about it what is TJ Packer says
it this way what makes life worthwhile
is having a big enough objective
something which catches our imagination
and it lays hold of our allegiance and
this is what the Christian has in a way
that no other person has for what higher
more exalted more compelling goal can
there be than to know God do you know
him for yourself do you know who God is
the Greek word for to knows to good note
is called Gallo schoo but it means
intimacy with God not just surface stuff
the stuff you'll find on Wikipedia if
you looked up Jesus name but talking
about having an intimate personal
relationship with Jesus Christ in this
body of texts the Apostle Paul is in the
middle of his letter and he indicates
his transition by writing finally my
brother's rejoice in the Lord he wants
to stress that joy is found in the Lord
no matter what state you find yourself
in just keep on giving God praise in
your situation will turn around Nehemiah
8 in 10 says the joy of the Lord is my
strength show me someone would joy and
I'll show you someone with strength but
for Paul he was in prison
writing this letter prison in his day is
not like the Taj Mahal of Prisons that
we have today where people go in and
they can watch TV and they can get
educated and it was not like that in
Paul's day you remember Paul says
whatsoever state I find myself in there
and to be content but Paul wants us to
know the reason why he has joy the
reason why he could be content it's
because of his relationship with Jesus
let me just say this that the letter
that Paul is sinning to the Church of
Philippi he's sending it out because
they're false teachers out there
teaching the wrong things and you know
how false teachers do it everything that
they say is not wrong what they do is
they they mix what they want to put in
there with a little bit of truth and
before you know it you're just moving
away from God one of the arguments that
they would have and they would basically
say that if you were male and you were
not circumcised that you were not set
apart for God and the Apostle Paul is
saying not so he called them dogs he
called him evildoers he called them
mutilators but the passo Paul is saying
that if you have faith in Jesus Christ
then you are circumcised because he's
talking about the circumcision of the
heart so the question for us this
morning is does God have hold of your
heart
I'm going to hit you with another
statement where in the world but we're
not of the world how many of you heard
that before I believe what it what it
means is that yes that we're in this
world but this world shouldn't have the
greatest influence in our lives
we're in this world but God ought to
have the greatest influence in our lives
what we do where we go how we do what we
do the Apostle Paul is saying yeah that
was done in the in the Old Testament
that was done back in the days but Jesus
has come and he's looking at your heart
if your heart is right with him then you
have been circumcised if your heart is
sinful then what does it matter whether
if you've had physical circumcision or
not it's of no avail a circumcised body
and a sinful heart it doesn't mesh the
Apostle Paul is saying that there must
be more congruence with our walk and our
talk it's not just how we live this one
hour on Sunday amen but how we live
throughout the week that's what God is
looking at he's looking at the heart
does God have hold of your heart there's
so many things fighting for our
attention and it doesn't mean that we
just abandoned God and we are attracted
to these other things but I think that
sheep go astray nibble by nibble they
don't intend to go astray but nibble by
nibble before they know it their way
from the rest of the flock Paul is
warning against this and then Paul says
something very interesting he talks
about how he grew up that on the eighth
day he was circumcised that he grew up
in how he was taught and that he
understood the law that
he was well-known he was a top guy he
was a Pharisee but Paul is saying but
none of that means anything without
Christ
you know Paul is the right person to
talk to us about this because you will
remember when he was solved and he's
going to Damascus spouting threats ready
to just murder Christians anybody who
were called themselves Christians Paul
was against them and a bright light a
bright light shone it knocked them off
his horse he was blind and he heard a
voice that said to him Saul Saul why do
you persecute me and he says who are you
and the voice says I am Jesus remember
this as after Jesus had been resurrected
and he has this encounter with God when
we have an encounter with Christ a real
encounter with Christ we don't remain
the same if I went around this room and
I asked husbands and wives to tell me
how they met we might hear different
stories some of you met when you were
teenagers others while you were further
along some were looking for mates some
we're not looking for mates that just
happen and begin to develop some of you
fell in love at first sight and some it
didn't happen that way but for every one
of you you began a personal relationship
with your mate and because of it your
life is different and I think it's the
same way with the relationship with
Jesus Christ it doesn't matter your
introduction some of you been in church
all of
your life and you don't know anything
different which i think is beautiful I
wish that was my story some of you have
dramatic stories like me and some of you
called out to God in crisis how many of
you prayed that prayer Lord if you just
get me through this I won't do that
again
anybody ever prayed that prayer but
here's the thing it doesn't matter
whether you grew up in the church and
have known God always or you've had some
dramatic experience the real issue is
that you know who God is I am I like to
believe that there people in the church
who have been in the church and they're
growing older but they're not growing in
Christ I'll never forget I was at jmu
and we had a young man who had been a
United Methodist all of his life he was
22 23 and he had never had an encounter
with God meaning that he never invited
Christ sent ask God to come into his
heart give his life meaning and purpose
he had never done that so I come to
realize that we can be in the church and
be Benchwarmers just warming up the Pew
you know the people who tell you don't
sit there that's my seat I've been
sitting there for 30 y'all know what I'm
talking about oh it doesn't happen in
this church what I love about our United
Methodists is that we practice what we
call the quadrilateral and it's a way of
us knowing about God it's four
components scripture tradition reason
and experience scripture is considered
our primary source so we have to study
in order to keep the relationship with
God cultivate the relationship with God
study to show thyself approval workmen
that need not be ashamed but rightly
dividing the word of truth
that's what the Word of God says
meditate on the word then we have
tradition we have the traditions of the
saints who would come before us and it's
the development of our faith over the
centuries that's our tradition and then
we have experience we all get to do that
in our own special way and God shows up
in different ways and we can experience
God as we appropriate our faith and then
we have reason how do we discern what
God is saying to us we we reason things
out but becoming a Christian requires
that we know who Jesus Christ is and we
invite him for our lives do we know who
Jesus Christ is for ourselves personally
but like any other relationship we have
to cultivate it we've got to spend time
let me go back when you were dating you
found time I want that woman you found
time right or you want that whatever you
may time in order to nurture the
relationship and I use that because we
find time we need to find time to serve
God to know more about who God is in our
lives
Philippians 3 verses 4 & 6 says it this
way if anyone else thinks that he may
have competence in the flesh I have more
circumcised on the eighth day the stock
of Israel the tribe of Benjamin a Hebrew
a Hebrew concerning the law of Thera see
a man with zeal persecute
the church concerning the righteousness
which is in the law I was blameless Paul
said I had it all but it means nothing
without Christ I put all of that behind
me you know we can't just sit in a room
and look at our trophies and our
certificates and think that we're
actually moving on is good to look at
that stuff
but we need to look through the
windshield and not in the rearview
mirror
you can't drive the whole way looking in
the rearview mirror amen and this is
what the Apostle Paul is saying let
those things go put it behind you it
pales in comparison to knowing who Jesus
is and he did everything that he could
do to learn about who Christ is notice
he came on the heels of it but most of
the New Testament is written by the
Apostle Paul Philippians three verses
seven through eight but what things were
gain to me these I've counted as a loss
for Christ whom I've suffered the loss
of all things and I count them as
rubbish that I might gain Christ his
relationship with Christ was the most
important thing to him is your
relationship with Christ the most
important thing to you listen to how
David put it in Psalm 63 verse 1 oh god
you are my god early will I seek you my
soul thirsts for you my flesh longs for
you in a dry and thirsty land where
there is no water so I look for you in
the sanctuary to see your power and your
glory because of your loving-kindness is
better than life
my lips shall praise you
then I will bless you while I live I
will lift up my hands to your name my
soul shall be satisfied with the marrow
and the fat and my mouth so praise your
lips joyfully David knew who God was in
his life do we know who God is
the Apostle Paul is basically telling us
there's an enemy out there who wants to
stop you from loving God there's an
enemy out there who wants to distract
you and too often we become distracted
we become distracted by what goes on in
the world politically we get upset about
these things but I want you to keep your
focus God has all power how many of you
know that to be true
there's nothing outside of God's power
to know God is really to have the true
joy that Paul is talking about show me
someone with joy and I'll show you
someone with strength
do you know him personally do you know
him intimately let us pray
gracious God you are a loving and
gracious God you came that we might have
a relationship with God the Father and
God the Son and God the Holy Spirit
we thank you for Paul's words and
Philippians to teach us to be to be
where but maybe to create a thirst in us
to have a better relationship with you
to think about friendships how we
cultivate those friendships in
relationships how we should cultivate
the relationship with you what I know
all we have to do is say yes and our
hearts and the Holy Spirit will become
that driving force Lord lead us continue
to guide us show us the way that leads
to life and to leads to peace and we
would be so careful to give you the
praise and now let us pray that prayer
that Jesus taught his disciples our
Father who are in heaven hallowed be thy
name
[Music]
maybe yes just come forth that we might
worship the law that the giving
who verses 1 through 13 I'm going to
read it from the walls that we're
reading the same thing have then there
is any encouragement in Christ any
consolation from love any sharing in the
spirit any compassion and sympathy make
my joy complete be of the same mind
having the same love being in full
Accord and of one mind do nothing from
selfish ambition or conceit but in
humility regard others as better than
yourselves let each of you look not to
your own interests but to the interests
of others let the same mind be in you
that was in Christ Jesus
although he was in the form of God did
not regard equality with God as
something to be exploited but emptied
himself taking the form of a slave being
born in human likeness and being found
in human form he humbled himself and
became obedient to the point of death
even death on a cross therefore God also
highly exalted him and gave him the name
that is above every name so that the
name of Jesus every knee should Bend in
heaven and on the earth and under the
earth and every tongue should confess
that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory
of God the Father therefore my beloved
just as you have always obeyed me not
only in my presence but much more in my
absence work out your own salvation with
fear and trembling for it is God who is
at work in you enabling you both to will
and to work for his good pleasure
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's holy word
made sink deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace but I know
all you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see he will not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
many years ago a writer came across
soldiers who were trying to move a heavy
log without success the Corporal
standing by just watched the men
struggled the writer asked the Corporal
why he wasn't helping in the Corporal
replied I'm a corporal I give the orders
the writer dismounted went up stood by
the soldiers and as they were lifting
the log he helped them to lift it with
that the log was moved the writer
quietly mounted his horse and went back
to the Corporal and says the next time
your men need help send for the
commander-in-chief after that he left
the Corporal and the men later found
that the writer was George Washington
the message is pretty simple success and
humility go hand in hand I'm talking
about humility this morning out of his
wisdom Robert Morrison of
I wrote the great fault I think in the
mission field is that no one likes to be
second the world has yet to see what
could happen if everyone lost the desire
to get ahead to get the glory
wouldn't it be a marvelous place if
nobody cared who got the credit I'm
talking about humility this morning I
heard a story about a pastor who was
voted the most humbled pastor in all of
America
and the congregation gave him this
beautiful medal that says the most
humble pastor in America the pastor was
so pleased he took the medal and he had
a chain made for it and he put it around
his neck and he wore it Sunday after
Sunday after Sunday the congregation
took the metal metal back because he was
no longer deemed humble talking about
humility this morning Jonathan Edwards
said it like this the best protection
that one can have from the devil the
devil and all of his schemes is a humble
heart is a humble heart I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought humility humility in
this particular story Paul is in prison
he's writing to the Church of Philippi
because he wants to encourage them they
have problems of their own they're like
many churches today were engaged in
let's say pettiness small arguments
things that when we boil it down it
didn't mean much and so Paul points them
to a better approach to relationships
he's talking about
humility Eugene Peterson's sums it up
this way
verses one through four if you've gotten
anything at all out of following Christ
if his love has made any difference in
your life being in community means
anything to you if you have a heart if
you care then do me a favor
agree with each other love each other be
good friends to one another don't push
your way to the front don't sweet-talk
your way to the top put yourself aside
help others get ahead don't be obsessed
we're getting your own way forget
yourself long enough to lend a helping
hand to someone else Paul is talking
about humility and then verses 5 through
8 by Eugene Peterson think of yourselves
the way Christ Jesus thought of himself
he had equal status with God but he
didn't think so much of himself that he
had to cling to those advantages no not
at all when the time came
[Music]
Jesus set aside all privileges of his
deity and he took on a lowly status he
became fully human in doing so he became
a slave having become human must have
been incredibly humbling
he didn't claim those special privileges
instead he lived a selfless obedient
life and then died a selfless obedient
death
Paul is talking about humility in verses
9 through 11 because of that obedience
God lifts in him high and honored him
far beyond anyone or anything ever so
that all created beings in heaven and on
earth and even those long dead and
buried will bow in worship every knee
should bow and every tongue should
confess that he's Lord Paul begins by
wrought reminding them of the blessings
that God has given them if you have any
encouragement from being United with
Christ if any comfort from his love of
any fellowship from his spirit of any
tenderness and compassion notice that he
assumes that every one of us have these
things then he says to the Church of a
little Philip I then make my joy
complete by being like-minded having the
same love being one in spirit and one in
purpose he's not just making them to
think like one another he wants them to
be like-minded with Christ
what if our church were like-minded with
Christ where might we be a place where
there was unconditional forgiveness
unconditional acceptance a
non-judgmental environment a place where
we would truly encourage one another
where might we be you see
in the Church of Philippi they were
getting bogged down with stuff petty
arguments things that when you really
look at it it won't matter Paul is
saying let's be like minded with Christ
I'm talking about humility this morning
I know a little something about humility
because I've been humiliated anybody
I'll share a story with you when I was
in the Marine Corps probably about 215
pounds I used to live five hours a day I
was really strong
I could benchpress 365 pounds no problem
I could curl bar on one hand 70 pounds
pretty strong 18 inch arms so I was on
ship and sergeant Brown was armwrestling
with people and this was his claim
anybody who could last for 10 seconds
you didn't even have to win if you could
last for 10 seconds he would pay you
$300 but if he took you down you had to
pay a hundred and fifty dollars so
Marine after Marine he was taken down
and then the Marines came and got me
hey parse sergeant Brown has taken
everybody down he says he would give
$300 to the winner
look we'll put the money up but do you
think that you can last for 10 seconds
with them I was 21 does that tell you
anything
and I said man I could last longer than
10 seconds no problem no way where is he
and they said he's down here and so you
could imagine the height we're walking
downtown walking with confidence I'm
gonna beat this guy there's no way he's
gonna take me down in ten seconds no way
possible so everybody's there it's all I
sit at the table they put the money down
we lock arms and I'm looking at him
showing him I'm not intimidated by you I
don't care how many people you took down
you're not taking me now anybody ever
been there
and as we're locked and the guy is
holding our arms and then the timer is
looking at the time and he said go can I
tell you what happened he had some kind
of technique let me get get your own had
some kind of technique and he put this
pressure on my thumb and twist it all at
the same time and I felt this pressure
go up my thumb up my wrist up my forearm
and then BAM he slam me to the table I
lasted for three and a half seconds I
[Laughter]
was so confident but I was also arrogant
and prideful I had to drag my arm off
the table I wouldn't got into bed I
didn't speak to anybody for two days I
know a little something about humility
I've been humiliated and then but then I
started thinking about humility and I
started thinking about when I graduated
undergrad at st. Peter's College all my
family members were there and people
were just saying congratulations I was
the second in the family to graduate
with the college degree and Derek you
did it god bless you all you made it
aunt Derek you the second in the family
to do this job well done congratulations
and my little grandmother's are standing
in the back and she came and she hugged
me and this is what she said into my ear
the doors been held open for you now
hold it open for someone
there was no congratulation none of that
job well done the doors been held open
for you now hold it open for someone
else you see sometimes when we have
knowledge we get puffed up and we think
that we know more than anybody else
especially when we're young hello one
time I told my grandmother she was
asking me to do something and I said I
know she said what was I gonna say I
said I don't know she said that's right
you don't know everything but sometimes
what knowledge we get puffed up well
grandma was saying to me what son you
didn't get here on your own none of us
do there were people who prayed for me
there was people who helped me along the
way don't you sit there and be arrogant
you a product of prayer boy how many of
you know what I'm talking about
everything we have is an offering from
God so there's no way that we can say we
made it on our own none of us do because
God has blessed us I'm here at
Providence United Methodist Church
riding on the heals of those who came
before me riding on the heals of Mary
Beth leadership and Mary Beth was riding
on the heels of somebody else that's how
it is but sometimes we think it's all
about us hello Paul the same have the
same mind as Jesus Christ think about
this
he has equal status with God the Father
and yet he puts his deity aside he put
his Majesty aside and comes down in
human form fully divine
fully human but he humbled himself as a
slave taking on the form as a slave not
thinking of himself better than anyone
else
I love the acronym joy Jesus first
others second and you less but that's a
hard thing for us to do is to prefer
others above ourselves isn't it but this
is what Paul was saying but if we want
unity consider them they don't say they
have to be better than you but he says
consider them do the thing that you know
that God would have you to do I read a
story about a woman who was at the toll
booth and she told the the person she
says I'm gonna pay for the person behind
me and when the person came up said
that's alright the lady in front of you
paid it went on for two hours people
paying for the person behind them paying
for the person behind them what if we
did the same thing I love the scripture
that says they will know that you're my
disciples if you love one another
the Apostle Paul is saying don't get
this wrong you want to be the body of
Christ then you got to have the mind of
Christ you got to do it the way he did
it but what if our church had the mind
of Christ
what if we became a place that was
encouraging what if we were a place
where no one was petty with one another
what if we were a place where people
were extremely generous with their time
their energy their resources I've heard
that if there is such a place where
there is unconditional love
unconditional acceptance a
non-judgmental environment that people
would come
I think the Apostle Paul's words are so
fitting for us but lastly I want to read
in your hearing 1st Peter chapter 5
verses 1 through 6 nana's an elder
myself in a witness of the sufferings of
Christ as well as one who shares in the
glory to be revealed I exhort the elders
among you to tend to the flock of God
that is in your charge exercising
oversight not under compulsion but
willingly as God would have you to do it
do it not for gain but do it eagerly do
not lord it over those in your charge
but be an example to the flock and when
the chief Shepherd appears you will win
a crown of glory that never fades away
in the same way you who are younger must
accept authority of the elders and all
of you must clothe yourselves with
humility in your dealings with one
another God opposes the proud but he
gives grace to the humble
humble yourselves therefore under the
mighty hand of God so that he may exalt
you in due time cast all of your anxiety
upon him because he cares for you why am
I talking about humility this morning is
because it's not natural for us humility
is not natural it seems like pride and
arrogance as just as natural as sleep
but humility is not we have to work at
it we have to work at it and that's what
this letter to the Church of Philippi is
about he's encouraging them to reach
higher to do better and I think that
that's what God would have us to do is
to reach higher and to do better would
you open your hymnals to page 12
when the day of pentecost had come they
were together in one place and suddenly
from heaven there came a sound like the
rush of a violent wind and in filled the
entire house where they were sitting
divided tongues as of fire appeared
among them and a tongue rested on each
of them all of them were filled with the
Holy Spirit and began to speak in other
languages as the spirit gave them
ability now there were devout Jews from
every nation under heaven living in
Jerusalem and at this sound the crowd
gathered and was bewildered because each
one heard them speaking in the native
language of each amazed and astonished
they asked are not these who are
speaking Galileans and now how is it
that we here each of us and our own
native language Parthians and Medes
Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia
Judea and Cappadocia Pontus and Asia
Phrygia and Pamphylia Egypt and the
parts of Libya belonging to serene and
visitors from Rome both Jews and
proselytes Cretans and Arabs in our own
language we hear them speaking about
God's deeds of power all were amazed and
perplexed saying to one another what
does this mean but others sneered and
said they're filled with new why but
Peter standing with the eleven raised
his voice and addressed them men of
and all who are in Jerusalem let this be
known to you and listen to what I say
indeed these men are not drunk as you
morning no this is what was spoken
through the Prophet Joel and the last
days it will be God declares that I will
pour out my spirit upon all flesh and
your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy and your young men shall see
visions and your old men shall dream
dreams even upon my slaves both men and
women in those days I will pour out my
spirit fire and smoke II miss the Sun
shall be turned to darkness and the moon
to blood before the coming of the Lord's
great and glorious day then everyone who
calls on the name of the Lord shall be
saved
everyone who calls on the name of the
Lord shall be saved
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
may it sink deep down and bring forth
much fruit the Word of God for the
people of God good morning
I always like to share a little bit
about the song that we're gonna be
singing and it's a medley one of the
songs is actually out of the faith we
sing so if you want a little bit of
homework you can turn to page 20 71 and
you can follow along with some of the
words and then we're also going to be
singing part of the hymn my Jesus I love
thee and when you think about the book
of Acts and that people were so
committed to Jesus Christ that they were
willing to follow him that they were
willing to wait in Terry and receive the
Holy Spirit and everything that we're
doing here even as Jimmy shared is a
reflection of
that belief that the Spirit of God is
alive and well today inside each one of
us
[Music]
[Applause]
tis so sweet to trust in Jesus and to
take him at his word
just to who rest upon his promise and to
know that says the Lord Jesus Jesus how
I trust him how I proved more endure
Jesus Jesus precious Jesus Oh for grace
to trust him more I woke up with that
song this morning I'm not the best
singer but I just wanted to give God
praise let us pray most gracious God I'm
a sinner I'm a broken vessel but I know
all you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer force in
Christ's name I pray amen
I came
this story entitled the wrappings of
Pentecost and it starts out like this
that we must put this into proper
perspective those of us who see
Pentecost main significance as just the
miraculous power of God is missing the
new thing that God is doing and that new
thing that was done was the end welling
of God's Holy Spirit he goes on to say
it's like someone who receives a
beautifully wrapped
birthday gift but after carefully
removing the velvet ribbon and the
expensive wrapping paper
the lovely box is open to reveal the
keys to a fancy mercedes-benz but then
this confused person tosses aside the
keys with their that's nice and then
turns and goes back to the wrapping in
which they say wow what a beautiful box
what wonderful ribbon what a gorgeous
wrapping paper I love it and I'm going
to keep it forever what's my point we
must be careful not to confuse the
Pentecostal gift with the wrappings in
which it came but we must allow the Holy
Spirit to envelop us so that we too
might do the work that we call to do I'm
talking about Pentecost this morning
Joel Olsteen says the greatest gift that
we can give someone is the gift of our
time the gift
of our love our attention our care and
our concern and he says isn't this what
Jesus did by sending us the Holy Spirit
that we who are his people would feel
his love would feel his attention would
feel his care and his concern on a daily
base I'm talking about Pentecost this
morning Reverend Melvin M Newland says
that when we celebrate the birth of
Jesus all of the world pauses and they
celebrate with us when we celebrate the
resurrection most of the world
recognizes Easter as a holiday a special
day a holy day and so some will
celebrate with us but not on Pentecost
Pentecost is hardly recognized by many
yet this is the day that is a
significant day in the life of the
church Pentecost is the birthday of the
church and God has given us this
wonderful opportunity of being a part of
it can the church say Amen I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought the gift of the Holy
Spirit the gift of the Holy Spirit you
know what's interesting is the book of
Acts opens I mean 11 chapter 11 it opens
with the disciples staring at Jesus as
he's ascending into heaven and I
imagined that they are thinking this is
pretty final I mean he's resurrected
from the grave and scripture says over
500 witness
I saw Jesus at one time but now he's
ascending and they kind of know that
it's final and I would imagine that it
was supernatural so they were staring
when we see a phenomenon we watch and
Jesus is ascending without a space suit
a space helmet and he's ascending right
in front of them some of us would have
ran for cover you know we would have but
they're standing there and they're
gazing and the scripture says two men
dressed in dazzling white it says why do
you stand there gazing the same way he's
left he's going to come again in other
words what did he tell you to do
scripture says that they were supposed
to go back to Jerusalem and tarry and
wait from for power from on high so they
go to Jerusalem to wait and to pray let
me digress for a moment aw Tozer says
that the Great Commission is not the
first call to the church toza reminds us
that Jesus first told the disciples to
go to Jerusalem and tarry there until
they are endowed with power on high
Jesus is going to impart a piece of him
and a piece of the Father and deposit it
into every believer when I was growing
up my mother would come through and she
would say it's time to get up she wasn't
coming through a second time y'all know
what I'm talking about
so you had to get right up and you had
to make your bed I mean before you go to
the bathroom you had to make your bed we
would get dressed and just before you
head out the door she said come here
that's why I told you the Marine Corps
was really easy because I live with my
mother
and we were coming there and my other
would inspect each person with the eyes
to see if your hair was combed or
brushed her or whatever and she's
looking you over and looking over what
you had on to see if it was okay and
then after she inspected all of us she
said now listen
Parsons don't act like everybody else
y'all understand what I mean we say yes
mama and she says all right go to school
have a good day and when I got old
enough I wanted to know why did she do
that I mean I wasn't scared of her I'm
just saying I wasn't scared of her but I
waited until I was old enough and I said
and I had a little distance when I asked
the question but I said I said mom why
did you do that every morning that you
would like you inspected us and you were
so regimented in the way that that you
did it she said first of all you got a
haircut once a week because you
represent me no matter where you are I'm
your mother you understand I said yep so
I took two small steps back and I waited
to she finished she said now you had
nice school clothes
why because you represent me no matter
where you are you represent me you had
nice church clothes because I was trying
to teach you to present your best self
to God and I wanted all of you to have a
relationship with God but we went to
church every Sunday because I was a
single parent and I needed God's help to
raise all of you so let's give my mother
a big hand I think she did a great job
[Applause]
but this is just like Jesus he's not
going to just leave the disciples that
wasn't the plan
the plan is so beautiful that he would
deposit a portion of himself into each
and every one of us so that we could
live for him so that we could represent
him so that we could live with
excellence what a beautiful plan that
when we sinned that we wouldn't even
have to go and kill a lamb in a ram but
that he would be the Lamb who takes away
the sins of the world when I think about
this plan how special it is what a
perfect plan Jesus had no desire for the
disciples to do the work of ministry
until they had an encounter a real
encounter with the Holy Spirit how many
of you know that when you have an
encounter with Christ you don't remain
the same you cannot remain the same
Jimmy had an encounter with God and he
heard the word go and he was never the
same notice what he says he says that if
I had died in that moment it was enough
for me now God sends the Holy Spirit to
live inside of me and to live inside of
you to remind us of all that he said to
teach us how to live for him to empower
us for the work that is set before so
church are you ready to do the work of
God that is set before you listen to
John 14 verse 12 through 14 very truly I
tell you whoever believes in me
we'll do the works that I've been doing
now listen to this and they will do even
greater things than these because I'm
going to the Father and I will do
whatever you ask in my name so that my
father may be glorified in the son you
may ask me for anything in my name
and I will do it how powerful is that or
John 14 verses 15 through 21 if you love
me keep my commands and I will ask the
Father and He will give you another
advocate who's the advocate anybody all
right
somebody went to Sunday school praise
the Lord and He will give you another
advocate to help you and to be with you
forever
the world cannot accept him because it
neither sees him nor knows him but you
know him for he lives with you and he
will be in you I will not leave you as
an orphan I will come to you before long
the world will no longer see me anymore
but you will see me and because I live
you also will live on that day you will
realize that I am in the father and you
are in me and I am in you whoever has my
command and keep them is the one who
loves me the one who loves me will be
loved by my father and I too will love
them and show them reveal myself to them
how good is that the fathers and me but
I am in you the fathers and me but I'm
in you sending the Holy Spirit that
would deposit itself in you and to cause
you to live in radical ways Pentecost is
significant both in the Old Testament
and the New Testament Pentecost is
actually the Greek name for the festival
known in the Old Testament as the feast
of weeks the feast of weeks is the
second of the three solemn feasts where
all Jewish males had to return to
Jerusalem to attend these important
feast and to bring the first fruits
offering to thank God for all he had
done throughout the years it starts
seven full weeks or exactly 50 days
after the feast of weeks and 50 it gets
its name Pentecost so
this was important in the life of all
the Jewish males and when I looked at
Scripture there's no other place that
really talks about Pentecost except in
the book of Acts Pentecost signals the
beginning of the church that we know
today can somebody say Amen and as I
said the only biblical reference is in
the book of Acts acts 1 and verse 8 in
acts 2 verses 1 through 3 but let me say
that Pentecost is also reminiscent of
the Last Supper I know it's a mental
leap but listen for a second
the disciples were all gathered in one
place the Last Supper and they witnessed
the end of Jesus earthly ministry and
heard Jesus say to them to remember him
after his death and after the
resurrection and until he returns again
and on Pentecost the disciples were all
gathered together and they witness the
birth of the New Testament church in the
coming of the Holy Spirit - and well all
believers and you say well why is this
important you see in the Old Testament
the Holy Spirit would come upon a
prophet to do gods bidding but it was
not the same maybe the the spirit would
leave and come but now it's different
the Holy Spirit is going to live inside
of you and I so that we might do the
Lord's work the work that is
before Pentecost is the gift of the Holy
Spirit that comes to teach us as
believers how to live for God how to
walk this walk on a deeper level how to
get closer to God how to discern God's
will that's why the Holy Spirit has come
to teach us how to walk with excellence
so that we might hit the target but when
I looked at this Scripture
I said you know God is an amazing God
that he has no respect of persons God is
saying those who will believe will
receive my spirit that he has no respect
of persons listen to what the scripture
says on the day of Pentecost they
started speaking in foreign tongues
which enable people from various
language groups to understand the
message of the Apostles now notice what
it says they were not just talking
gibberish you know just saying something
and nobody understood what they were
saying the people around them understood
that it was a message from God and it
says now they were staying in Jerusalem
where god-fearing Jews from every nation
under the heavens and when they heard
this sound a crowd came together in
bewilderment because each one heard them
speaking in his own language
utterly amazed they asked are not all of
these men who are speaking Galileans
in other words uneducated poor not
wealthy not well-to-do people how is it
that they've picked up another language
then how
that each of us hear them in our own
native language parthians and medes and
elamites and residents of Mesopotamia
Judea Cappadocia Pontus an age of
Phrygia and Pamphylia Egypt and other
parts of Libya near sorry visitors from
Rome both Jews and converts to do to Jew
Judaism excuse me
cretins in Arabs we hear them declaring
the wonders of God in our own tongue how
many of you know that God is the God
over all over all people scripture says
amazed and perplexed they asked one
another what does this mean what's the
significance the power of
is perplexing amen
I don't think there's anybody here can
explain everything that God does God is
just awesome and powerful and God
perplexes us I mean just think for a
moment you know where and you get this
tap by God ain't Noah it's me God I want
you to build an ark I'm going to give
you the specs for the Ark's don't worry
I'm gonna give you the strength to do it
and once you do it I want you to find
every species of animals male and female
by 2 and I want you to put on an art you
and your family I'm gonna take good care
of you could you imagine it's perplexing
what I mean this is a huge boat are you
serious
I think about Moses he's murdered
somebody he's on the back side of the
mountains in hiding and he goes up to
the mountain and he sees a burning bush
you know God knows how to get our
attention amen and the bush is burning
but it's not being consumed and I
imagine some of you two ran down the
hill if you saw that but but but Moses
is standing there and God says Moses
calls them by name take off your sandals
for you're standing on holy ground
could you imagine in God says I've got a
plan for you God is powerful but
perplexing and so when these folks are
saying how is this possible I get it I
can't explain how God does what God does
but God is just amazing I've been in the
hospital rooms where God has baffled
doctors when doctors have given up and
say that's it
there's nothing else we can do
we're going to make your sister large
comfortable but that's all we can do and
she came out of it three times this
happened where the doctors was just to
know what else to do but as a family we
we rode on the wings of prayer and
trusted God more than we trusted the
doctors we serve an awesome God amen
that's all I'm saying how God gives to
one and not to another I don't
understand all of that but God can be
perplexing
could you imagine job when job is
getting tired and now he says look here
God you got to do something God said
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa wait a minute
do you really want to have this
conversation do you know where the
storehouse of rain is kept what and God
takes him through these things until he
gives in and say Lord you demand you
demand I'm gonna back up but God is a
powerful awesome God but in the midst of
this excitement Peter spoke up and got
the crowds attention Peter's very crafty
notice what he says he says fellow Jews
and and all of you who live in Jerusalem
let me explain this to you listen
carefully to what I have to say these
men are not drunk as you suppose it's
what was spoken to them by the Prophet
Joel and scripture says he began to
preach with them about who Jesus is in
other words the one that you crucified
that's the one who God said would be
here who God said would send his spirit
but you know who he is and you with
wicked men you put him to death by
nailing him to the cross but you need to
know God raised him up he's not dead
he's alive and scripture says they were
cut to the heart and they said Peter
what shall we do what I love about the
scriptures that they had a change of
heart
and scripture says that there was 3000
added to the fold we talked about Omega
church Peter preached and 3,000 were
added to the number Peter understood
this as we need to understand it today
of all the gifts given to humanity there
is none greater than the presence of the
Holy Spirit Peter understood as we need
to understand today that the Spirit does
a work in our hearts so that we might
live for him the Spirit comes for all
people everywhere Jesus told the
disciples that he would send the spirit
into the world to convict the world of
guilt and sin I'm so glad that the Holy
Spirit came upon me to teach me how to
live for him Pentecost is Jesus words
coming to preferred to fruition
very truly I tell you whoever believes
in me will do the works that I've been
doing and
they will do even greater things than
these because I'm going to the Father
whatever you ask in my name I will give
it Pentecost is God's way of saying no
more mediocrity no more doing enough to
get by no more being a coward hiding no
more of that but the Holy Spirit has
come to embolden us to live for him I
think of this I think of David who says
even though I walk through the valley of
the shadow of death I will fear no evil
for you are with me somebody say Amen
for you are with me thy rod and thy
staff they comfort me thou prepares a
table before me in the presence of my
enemy you anoint my head with all my cup
runs over
surely goodness and mercy shall follow
me all the days of my life and I shall
dwell in the house of the Lord forever
David is saying because you're with me
goodness and mercy is in pursuit of my
life but after we've received this gift
we can say it like Peter Gomes that we
have been formed by God nurtured by his
love preserved by his mercy open to his
promise expectant of his future for us
knowing that we can be the expression of
divine hope listen my friends you are
God's best and God's last chance for
this world he has no hands but our hands
he has no mouth but our mouth and he's
calling on us to do his bidding are you
with me but too often we read the
newspaper and we go you know what the
world is
awful place to live but don't you forget
and we look at the news that we say I
can't believe what just happened on the
news and you know what I think God is
saying what are you gonna do about it
Althea that's how I think I think God is
going to say what are you going to do
about it the same power that's available
to Christ when he was raised and when he
ascended is the same power available to
us when we prayed the question is do we
believe that now that we have them
living on the inside that power is
available to us when we pray you want
the world to have peace pray you want
the world to have hope pray you want the
world to receive grace pray you want
them to receive God's love share what
he's done with you share what he's done
in your life who are we the children of
God that's been empowered to live for
him can the church say Amen Laura I want
you to come out and I want you to lead
us in a prayer
join with me please Lord we celebrate
this time of Pentecost when you've sent
your spirit to be a motoring for knowing
what is the right thing to do for taking
on what we need to take on thank you for
that power let us be ever appreciative
let us use it for your kingdom thank you
so very much for these and all our many
blessings in Jesus name Amen
and just as a ritual a meaningful ritual
let us say the Lord's Prayer together
our Father who are in heaven hallowed be
thy name thy kingdom come thy will be
done on earth as it is in heaven give us
this day our daily bread and forgive us
our trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation
may
from the book of Philippians chapter 1
verses 20 through 30 it is my eager
expectation and hope that I will not be
put to shame in any way but that by my
speaking with all boldness Christ will
be exalted now as always in my body
whether by life or by death for to me
living is Christ and dying is gain if I
am to live in the flesh that means
fruitful labor for me and I do not know
which I prefer I'm hard pressed between
the two my desire is to depart and to be
with Christ for that is far better but
to remain in the flesh it's more
necessary for you since I'm convinced of
this I know that I will remain and
continue with all of you for your
progress in joy and faith so that I may
share abundantly in your boasting in
Christ Jesus when I come to you again
only live your life in a manner worthy
of the gospel of Jesus Christ so that
whether I come and see you or am absent
and hear about you I will know that you
are standing firm in one spirit
striving side-by-side with one mind for
the faith of the gospel and are in no
way intimidated by your opponents for
them this is evidence of their
destruction but of your salvation and
this is God's doing for he has
graciously granted you the privilege not
only believing in Christ Jesus but of
suffering for him as well since you were
having the same struggle that you saw I
had
now and here that I still have the Word
of God for the people of God it's my
prayer that the Word of God would seek
deep down and bear much fruit
let us pray Lord it's my desire that you
might reveal more of yourself to us
today I pray that she would hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth the meditations of my
heart be acceptable in thy sight O Lord
my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
Tug McGraw Tim McGraw father was
hospitalized with a brain tumor in March
of 2003 he found that that day that he
had cancer and was given three weeks to
live yet he survived nine months Tim
McGraw recorded a song in memory of his
father live like you were dying have
anybody heard the song here's some of
the words he said I was in my early 40s
with a lot of life before me and a
moment came that stopped me on a dime I
spent most of the next days looking at
x-rays talking about the options and
talking about sweet time I asked him
when it sank tin that this might really
be the real end how it hits you when you
get that kind of news man what do you do
says I went skydiving I went rocky
mountain climbing I went to point seven
two point seven seconds on a bull named
foo Manchu
I love deeper
I spoke to eater I gave forgiveness I
had been denying and he says someday I
hope you get the chance to live like you
were dying he said I was finally the
husband that most of the time I wasn't
and became a friend a friend I would
like to have live like you're dying I
want to challenge your thinking with
that thought live like you were dying if
you thought that you only had a short
time to live what would you do what
would you say who what you talk to would
you try to get your affairs in order I
think that we would live intentionally I
think that we would be more focused I
started thinking about it Derek what
would you do
maybe I would do some of the things I'm
afraid to do hello anybody maybe I would
do those things that God continues to
put on my heart and and I say maybe I
don't have the skillset to do it maybe I
would just step out on faith what about
you what would you do differently I'm
talking about intentional living live as
though you're dying yesterday I had the
funeral for D Marshall but let me say
this D Marshall found out that she had
three weeks to live with cancer but her
faith was rock solid
I said D aren't you angry with God that
you only have three weeks to live
she says no life happens
she says one episode of my life I should
give up on God no Derek he's given me
time to put things in order I can tell
people how much I love them and even if
I've said it in the past I can call them
again isn't that wonderful
live like you're dying my friends what
would you do in this Texas says to live
is Christ and to die is gain
and I wonder to live is what it's a
blank to die is what for you what would
that blank be to live is what to die is
what I was talking to a friend on the
phone and we were talking about this and
and he was jokingly I said fill in the
blank he said to live is to be wealthy
and to die is to leave that wealth
behind we started laughing it was a joke
but you answered the question to live is
what it's a blank to die is what it's
just a blank when I looked at this text
Paul's theological reflections or a
response to his imminent death Paul knew
that it's coming some time he didn't
know when none of us know the day nor
the hour that we're going to go but Paul
is basically saying I want to live every
moment of my life for Christ I've done
it my own way
I made a
mess of things anybody know what Paul is
talking about but since his conversion
Paul is saying I want to do a God's Way
I want God to get the glory from my life
I want to move with the sense of urgency
for the kingdom everything that Paul did
he wanted to advance the kingdom of God
Paul don't care where he preached he
preached at Riverside's and synagogues
he preached in prison he preached as an
apostle he preached as a tentmaker his
message was constant Jesus Christ in him
crucified he brought the message to
kings to soldiers to Statesman's to
priests to philosophers to Jews to
Gentiles to men to women to children
Paul didn't care who he preached to
you've got an ear here what I've got to
say Paul lived like he was dying if I
get one more chance to share the gospel
that's what I want to do that's what
Paul is saying what will we do if we had
one more chance would it be to share the
gospel with somebody else but this is
what Paul wanted to do I'm not saying
that it has to be would you want to do
I'm just saying that's what Paul wanted
to do when we look at this statement to
live
is Christ and to die is gain sometimes
we get off into a tangent we say to die
is gain and and we start talking about
heaven and what heaven would look like
and but there's work to be done right
here hello if all of us in this church
right now we know who Jesus Christ is
that's wonderful but what about the
people outside these doors who's gonna
tell them that God loves them who's
gonna tell them that God's got a plan
and a purpose for their lives but us he
says I have no hands but your hands I
have no mouth but your mouth and then we
have the Great Commission that says go
into all the world baptize them making
disciples of Jesus Christ if not us then
who the Apostle Paul says to live is
Christ listen of all the things I've
done in my life I'm talking about the
good things
okay so just stay with me the greatest
thing I've done was to give my life to
the Lord the greatest thing I've done is
to have a relationship with him Paul is
saying don't you want to know him not
just facts about Jesus we can look at
Wikipedia and it'll tell us all the
facts but don't you want a relationship
with them don't you want to fully
understand what the resurrection means
for you the power of his resurrection
that same power that could live inside
of you Paul is saying don't you want
that don't you want to imitate the life
of Jesus the life that he led basically
Paul is saying that's what I tell my
follows follow me then you're following
Christ because I'm following after him
could we say the same things could we
tell our children our family members
follow me
because we're following Christ that's
what Paul is saying to live is Christ
what does that mean pursue him let us be
of good testimony Apostle Paul is saying
it this way before I met Jesus I lived a
sinful life I was bound by sin not set
free I did my own thing I did it my own
way but Jesus came and he offered me
forgiveness and he sent me free to live
for him and now that's what I want to do
I want to live for him with every ounce
of energy that God has given me I want
to live for him so I'm saying to you
what about you live like you're dying if
we were to live as though we were dying
maybe the things that are so important
to us now may not be so important maybe
telling that person off you're gonna
finally get them and tell them or won't
be so important it won't matter maybe
buying that next latest gadget won't be
on your list but living for Christ might
be live like you're dying
what if we knew that Jesus was coming
back would we live any different when he
comes back I hope he doesn't find me
talking about politics hello Ron when he
comes back I don't even want to be
talking about sports when he comes back
I hope he finds me in the vineyard
working sharing the gospel because
that's what changes lives Rick Warren's
there's a story just said that he was
with his father when he was on his
deathbed and he said the last words his
father said to him were these before we
close our eyes tonight
let's reach one more for Jesus Wow
his last words live like you're dying I
want you to hear this story
a young man came to w/e Gladstone when
he was prime minister of England and he
says mr. Gladstone I would appreciate
you giving me just a few minutes in
which I might lay before you my plans
for the future I would like to study law
yes at the great statesman and what then
then sir I would like to gain entrance
into the bar of England yes young man
and and what then then sir I hope I
would have a place in Parliament in the
house of the Lord's and yes young man
what then press Gladstone then I hope I
would do great things for Britain yes
young man what then then sir I hope to
retire and take life easy yes young man
and what then well then mr. Gladstone I
suppose I will will die yes young man
and what then
the young man hesitated and then he says
I never thought any further than that
sir
looking at the young man sternly and
steadily Gladstone said young man you
were fooled go home and think like
through this is told by Leonard Griffith
this is living but the real question is
what are you living for who are you
living for you see this question will
determine the direction of your life if
your purpose is wrong your direction
will be wrong if your purpose is vague
or fuzzy your direction will be vague
and fuzzy if you don't know your purpose
today you'll be swept along the currents
of the age and maybe mr. Gladstone might
ask you and what then and what then our
job as Christians is to live for Christ
and the Apostle Paul says I may have
messed up but I'm not going to get that
wrong I may have persecuted Christians
in my earlier days but I'm not gonna get
that wrong I'm gonna live for Christ
what about you are you gonna live for
him or are we gonna live for ourselves
or we're gonna try to mass wealth we're
gonna try to mass stuff to live is to
gain stuff I've never seen a u-haul
parked next to a graveyard anybody you
can't take it with you only what we do
for Christ will last
only what we do for Christ will make the
difference
eternally Paul says I'm not gonna get
that wrong what about us would you join
hands with the person next to you most
gracious God you are an amazing God to
see the best in us that while we were
yet sinners you died for us paid the
penalty for our sin offered us
forgiveness and set us free to live for
you let us hear the Apostle Paul who's
telling us to live as though we're dying
to live intentionally to live with a
sense of purpose to have you first and
foremost in our minds and our hearts to
pray every day that your will might be
done in our lives Oh father touch us
today let us leave this place better for
coming let us leave with even a more
sense of determination to live for you
and to share your love and grace with
the world that's hurting that doesn't
know you
father this day I can 10 you to pray for
the Marshall family I continue to pray
for the Gilliam family that you might
bless them she might hold them in the
hollow of your hand that you might
breathe on them and speak peace into
their situation
father we pray for our sick and our
shut-in that your hand will continue to
be with them that they might feel your
presence even as I prayed because you're
omnipotent
of Nishant but null event blessed is
time blessed this day although we pray
at all in Jesus name and now let us pray
that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples our father warned heaven
hallowed be thy name
we'll be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses forgive
those who trespassed against us and lead
us not into temptation but deliver us
from evil for thine is the kingdom
the hearing of God's Holy Word made sink
deep down and bring forth much fruit the
Word of God for the people of God in my
men's group we listened to dr. David
Jeremiah and he has a tape on love and
what he did in his opening I'm going to
do in my opening this morning is there
was a group of adults who asked kids to
describe love from four years old to
eight years old we can learn from anyone
right doesn't matter how old they are we
can learn a lesson
Rebecca age eight says when my
grandmother got arthritis and she
couldn't bend over to paint her toenails
anymore so my grandfather does it for
her all the time even though his hands
has arthritis that's love
Billy age four says when someone loves
you the way they say your name is
different you just know that your name
is safe in their mouth four years old
when someone loves you oh I'm sorry
Danny age seven love is when your mommy
makes coffee for your daddy and she
takes a sip before giving it to him just
to make sure that it tastes okay
that's love Emily age eight
love is when you see your mom and dad
kiss all the time then when they get
tired of kissing they still want to be
together and they still talk to each
other my mommy and dad are like that
they look gross when they kiss but
that's love
nikka eight-six if you want to learn to
love better you should start with the
people you hate age six
Tommi age six love is like a little old
woman and a little old man who was still
friends even after they know each other
so well
one little girl says during my piano
recital I was on stage and I was so
scared I looked at all the people
watching me and then I saw my daddy
waving and smiling he was the only one
doing that and I wasn't scared anymore
that's love Lauren aids for I know my
other my older sister loves me because
she gives me all of her old clothes and
then she has to go out and buy new ones
that's love Jessica age eight
you really shouldn't say I love you
unless you mean it but if you mean it
then you should say it a lot because
people forget in the final one the
author and lecturer Leo Buscaglia
he once talked about a contest where he
was passed the judge the purpose of the
contest was to find the most caring
child in the community the winner was a
four year old boy who's next door
neighbor was an elderly gentleman who
had recently lost his wife upon seeing
the man cry
the little boy went over to the old
gentleman's yard climbed onto its lat
and just sat there when the mother asks
what did you say to the neighbor the
little boy said nothing I just helped
him cry that's love I want to challenge
your thinking this morning the greatest
commandment is love I think we get it
wrong I mean we we hear the word love
and we've got it in all sorts of songs
and when we think of love we think of a
love that's conditional I love you if
that's not the love that's here in this
text the scribe asks which commandment
is the greatest of all some people think
that they were trying to trap Jesus but
the scribe is asking not which
commandment is first of many but rather
which commandment defines the core of
the Torah Jewish law includes 613
commandments 365 prohibitions 248
positive Commandments you see the
scribes will divide these into light and
heavy Commandments the light
Commandments being the less importance
and the heavy one's the ones that are
more essential scribes examine each law
in my new detail devising complex rules
to help people understand how to obey
each law for every conceivable situation
so when Jesus was asked this question
which is the greatest commandment in
other words can you summarize this for
us I mean can you synthesize it and and
boil it down for us notice Jesus didn't
even hesitate no description didn't say
Jesus says well let me let me think
about that
Jesus says that we are to love God with
all of our heart with all of our soul
with all of our mind and all of our
strength and the second is we are to
love our neighbor as ourselves this is a
commandment it's an imperative it's not
an option if we're to have a
relationship with God this is what we
are supposed to do is what Jesus is
saying when I looked at the scripture I
like to try to make it even more plain
if you're gonna love my father then give
him his best give him your best and
that's what we ought to do when we love
God you know we ought to spend some
quality time with the father not just
when we get around to it but we are to
offer guard our best we talk about the
classes if you don't know the Word of
God then how can you have a good
relationship with the father man shall
not live by bread alone but by every
word that proceeds out of the mouth of
God give God your best
Secretary of State he walks into the
office of the President of the United
States and he says sir here's the report
that you you asked for the president
said is it your best he thought about it
for a minute and said well I could work
on it a little bit more I'll go back and
work on it I'll make it better came back
later that evening and he said sir
here's the report that I had earlier I
did some more work on it is it your best
the president said he thought about it
again and he said I could do a little
bit more I could add I'll take it back
and go back to my office and work on a
little bit more the next day he came
back he said sir this is my best work I
labored on it all night it's good to go
and the president said now I'll read it
are we giving God our very best our time
our energy our talent are we giving God
our best that's a question that I want
you to ask yourself am I giving God my
best
you see Jesus is saying you guys are
arguing about stuff disputing over stuff
that in the end it's not going to mean
much my friends I don't want to argue
with people about religion I want to be
on the end where I'm reaching souls for
Christ I want to tell people that God's
got a plan and a purpose for your life I
want to see people turn from the way
that they were going just like I did and
give their life to God and see what God
can do with their lives
I want to be like gene Chappell who was
in Walmart and this lady was going
through something she says to the lady
would you would you like prayer lady
says I sure would
gene took her hands and prayed with that
that's the side that I want to be on I
want to be arguing about who's right
who's first who's less I don't want to
be on the side judging people I got
enough stuff in my own life what I've
read in the scripture that says that if
I judge I'm going to be judged by the
same measure I judge somebody else I
don't want to judge anybody I'll leave
all ultimate judgments to God are we
giving God how best love God with all of
our hearts without very being we ought
to love him my heart is beating because
he loves me I believe that I have breath
in my body because he loves me how many
of you believe that and if God didn't
want me to be here surely I would not be
here amen but somebody like a Miss
Mitchell can she continue to share the
love of God with me and she would say
things like God's got a plan and a
purpose for your life there was a part
of me that says how does she know that
why does she always say that but at 19
years old through Miss Mitchell I gave
my life to the Lord and I've never been
the same
to love God with all of your soul can be
translated with your breath with every
breath that you take love him love God
with all of your strength this has to do
with your abilities your gifts your time
your talent if it's not God hang-up and
to love your neighbor as yourself
lift up your neighbor don't cover what
your neighbor has offer your neighbor
your best do unto them as you would have
them do unto you
it's pretty simple Jesus is saying I
don't want to argue with you but if you
can get these things right you're not
far from the kingdom I love how the
Apostle Paul puts it the Apostle Paul
says nothing so separate us from the
love of God which is in Christ Jesus our
Lord
not nakedness not peril not famine no
height nor depth nothing and all of
creation will be able to separate us
from the love of God which is in Christ
Jesus do you get that there's nothing
that you can do to earn God's love
there's nothing that you can do to stop
God from loving you did you get that he
loves you period that was a hard thing
because I'm a sinner why would this holy
God love me like this but he does and
there's absolutely nothing that you can
do
thing is too strong to prevent God from
loving you I came across this story it
was the a pastor and his son and after
church service the pastor and his son
would go out and knock on doors and and
hand out a track and on this track it
it's pretty much followed the steps of
giving your life to God and the father
would tell the son he says we need to go
out because they're lost people out
there people who don't know who God is
and we've got to make the effort and so
this is what they would do every Sunday
the father and the son would go but one
Sunday was cold and it was raining and
the father said we're not going to go
today and her son says well why not he
said son look out there it's cold it's
wet it's raining and the boy said but
Dad you said that their lost Souls out
there people don't know who God is we
got to go that I got the tracks ready
right here his father said son I'm not
going out in that cold it's cold and
it's wet I'm not going and then
sarcastically the father said you go so
the boy put on his raincoat
12 years old he went out and he knocked
on doors and he hand out tracts but he
came to this one house and he rang the
bell and he listened he didn't hear
anything so he rang the bell and he
knocked on the door and listened he
didn't hear anything he started to walk
away and something inside deep down
inside says go back and ring the bell
again and knock on the door harder so he
turned around he goes back and he rings
the bell and he knocks on the door and
he listened he didn't hear anything so
he rang the bell and he knocked on the
door even harder he gets ready to walk
away and he felt that thing in sizes
don't leave go back and knock on the
door and ring the bell he goes back he
rings the bell and he bangs on the door
he rings the bell and he bangs on
door and he heard something a little old
lady came down she answered the door and
she was surprised to see this little boy
Nicole door was wet and he had a smile
and he says ma'am I just came here to
let you know that God loves you that
he's got a plan for your life he said
would you do me a big favor would you
read this tract
she took the tract from him she smiled
and he left she went inside slid down
the wall and she read that tract the
following Sunday the pastor of the
churches welcoming visitors and this
lady raised her hand and she says pastor
I need to talk to you I want to talk to
your congregation she says I've been
married for 50 years my husband died two
years ago and I was sad just broken
don't have many friends didn't have
anything to live for I went into the
attic and I tied a rope to the beam in
the attic and I had a chair right at the
balcony and I put that rope around my
neck and I was gonna jump
but somebody kept ringing my doorbell
and banging on my door she said I
thought if I would just be quiet maybe
they would go away nobody rings my bell
nobody knocks on my door whoever it was
was persistent they kept ringing and it
kept banging so I took the rope off my
neck I came downstairs to see who it was
maybe they were in trouble I saw the
most angelic little boy he smiled at me
and he says ma'am I just came to tell
you that God loves you and he's got a
plan for your life and the little boy
says ma'am would you do me a big favor
would you read this gospel tract he
handed me the tract and he walked away
she says I closed the door and I slid
down the wall I couldn't believe it
but I read that tract pastor and last
Sunday I gave my life to the Lord
because of that little boy is he here
the pastor came down from the pulpit
weeping his son was sitting on the front
pew and the pastor put his arms around
him and sobbed uncontrollably and he
said son you got it right that's love
you got it right you see I think the
love that Jesus is talking about it's
not a condition of if you do this for me
then I'll do this for you but it's a
sacrificial kind of love that this
little boy got it he understood it their
lost souls out there to win for Christ
sometimes we miss our opportunity came
across this story man whispered to God
and he says God speak to me in the birds
were singing to perfection but the man
didn't hear it so the man yelled God
speak to me and the thunder rolled
across the sky but the man really wasn't
listening the man looked around and he
says God let me see you and a star
shined brightly but the man didn't see
it
and the man
the man shouted God showed me a miracle
and life was born all around him but he
didn't notice the man cried in despair
touch me God and let me know you're here
whereupon God reached down and he
touched a man but the man brushed the
butterfly away and walked on
sometimes we're like that man we tell
the Lord that we want to experience
God's love and God's grace and it's all
around us and yet we miss it when I read
this scripture here's the thoughts that
came to mind there is no person on this
earth that loves me more than God no
woman not my mother
not my grandmother there's no human
being that loves me the way that God
loves me because he accepts all of me
there are things I don't like about
myself but God accepts me and he loves
me
he created all of this for us to enjoy
the Stars the moon Tyla helped us with
the Eclipse all of this God created so
that we could enjoy and experience his
love but he wants our love back in
return
think about it nobody loves you like God
one accepts you like God does even in
marriages I hear people say well she's a
good soul but let me tell you and then
they go to tell you the bad points about
the person anybody know what I'm talking
about God is not like that at 19 years
old he told me sister ik I love you I
got a plan and a purpose for you I want
you to go and teach my word to my people
I want you to preach teach and draw my
people to me that's my purpose for your
life I've never been the same
no one loves me like God loves me he
loves me with an eternal love I love
that won't let me go it's a love that
makes me get up in the morning with joy
things are falling around me but I get
up with joy because the god of the
universe says I love you I've got a plan
for you Derek preach my word teach my
word be faithful to me and I'll show you
a favour that you'd never seen my
friends that's the love that God loves
us with it's an unconditional love He
loves us with the love that won't let us
go it's the love that's eternal it'll be
in this life in the life after in
eternal love and all he says this give
me your life let me show you what I can
do with it
Jesus says I know there's 613
commandments but let me summarize it for
you love the Lord thy God with all of
their heart with all of that soul with
all of their mind and all of that
strength and I want you to love your
neighbor as you love yourself and if you
do this then you're not far from the
kingdom let
Frank Lord I am so grateful for your
love it's a love that I don't deserve
but you give it to me nonetheless and
Lord you put your hand on us in such a
way that every one of us can talk about
your grace every one of us can talk
about moments of favor when things could
have gone awry but yet you were there
Lord some of us have journeyed through
some painful situations but if we just
take a moment we can see that your hand
was with us even in those difficult
times
God you have proven to be so faithful so
loving so gracious and so kind teach us
how to love you back lord help us to
study bird 2nd Timothy
tells us to study to show that selves
approve a workman that need not be
ashamed but rightly dividing the word of
truth
grow us up lord help us so that we can
have a greater impact that maybe will be
just like this twelve-year-old boy who
went out and knocked on doors and shared
your love with them
Lord you use children and adolescents
and young people and young adults and
adults and even seniors give us courage
to serve you and we be so careful to
give you the praise for it's in the name
of the Father and of the Son and of the
Holy Spirit we do pray amen would you
open your hymnals
second reading comes from the Gospel of
Luke chapter 10 verses 1 through 21
after this the Lord appointed 70 others
and he sent them ahead of him in pairs
to every town in place where he himself
intended to go he said to them the
harvest is plentiful but the laborers a
few therefore ask the Lord of the
harvest to send out laborers into the
harvest go on your way
see I'm sending you out like lambs into
the midst of wolves carry no purse no
bag no sandals and greet no one on the
road whatever house you enter first say
peace to this house and if anyone there
who shares in peace your peace will rest
on that person but if not it will return
to you remain in the same house eating
and drinking whatever they provide for
the laborer deserves to be paid
do not move about from house to house
whenever you enter a town and its people
welcome you eat what is set before you
cure the sick who were there and say to
them the kingdom of God has come near to
you but whenever you enter a town and
they do not welcome you go out into the
streets and say even the dust of your
town that clings to your feet we wipe
off in protest against you yet know this
the kingdom of God has come near I tell
you on that day it will be more
tolerable for Sodom than for that town
woe unto you corazon woe to you
bethsaida for f the deeds of power alone
in europe and you have been done
entirely and in Sidon they would have
represented they would have repented
long ago sitting in South cloth and
ashes but the judgment will be more
tolerable for tyre and for sydney than
for you and you capernaum will you be
exalted to heaven no you will be brought
down to Hades whoever listens to you
listens to me and whoever rejects you
rejects me and whoever rejects me
rejects the one who sent me the seventy
returned with joy saying Lord in your
name even the demons submit to us and he
said to them I watch Satan fall from
heaven like a flash of lightning see I
have given you authority to tread on
snakes and scorpions and over the power
of the enemy and nothing will hurt you
nevertheless do not rejoice at this that
the Spirit submit to you but rejoice
that your names are written in heaven at
that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the
Holy Spirit and says I thank you Father
Lord of Heaven and Earth because you
have hidden these things from the wise
and the intelligent and have revealed
them to infants yes Father
for such was your gracious will may the
lord add a rich blessing to the reading
the hearing of God's Holy Word may it
sink deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God
let us pray father I'm a sinner saved by
your grace I am a broken vessel but I
know all you have to do is say the word
and I shall be healed long enough to do
your work and to do your will
father hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
some of you know Cindy Hobart Cindy
would you raise your hand in the back
and she's visiting with us wherever I've
gone Cindy has decorated my office and
so we just thank God for you we's and
teri would you stand
we's was my her name is Louise we call
Louise was my secretary in my other
appointment and she this is her husband
Terry and they become my family so I
just want to say thank God for you just
want to acknowledge you and so grateful
that you're here it's harvest time it's
harvest time there's an old farmer he's
walking along the path and he's going to
the pond and he sees this big bullfrog
he picks it up and he gets ready to put
it in his pocket and the Frog says kiss
me on the lips and I'll become a
beautiful farmer's wife he continued to
put it in a sparking and the Frog said
whoa whoa wait a minute did you hear
what I said kiss me on the lips and I'll
become a beautiful farmer's wife the old
farmer looked at the Frog he said as old
as I am I'd rather have a talking frog
[Laughter]
it's harvest time two young boys in the
country it's summertime they don't know
what to do and they decide to pull a
prank
sometimes things sound better than they
are and you anybody ever been there it
sound good on the surface and they
thought you know what we should do when
somebody goes into the outhouse let's
flank the outhouse come around and let's
push the outhouse over it sound like a
good idea so that's what they did they
flanked the outhouse they came to it and
they pushed it all the way over they ran
into the woods came back home another
direction when they came home there that
dad was standing there with a switch in
his hand anybody ever been spanked with
the switch if I see them on the road
I'll just stop and pull them up because
I've been beat so he does it so anyway
their father says to them boys did you
push that outhouse over this afternoon
the older one thinking about the lesson
that he towards Washington he said
father I cannot tell a lie
yes we pushed the outhouse over the
father commenced with that switch and he
spanked him good scent in the bed with
no dinner the next morning they got up
they were quiet they didn't know what to
say they came to the breakfast table
until the father spoke boys did you
learn your lesson and the older one
spoke up he says daddy we learned in
school that when George Washington cut
down the cherry tree and he told his
father that he did it he confessed his
father forgave him but we told you we
pushed over the outhouse and you spent
us good he says son yeah about that
story he says George Washington's dad
wasn't in the tree when he cut it down
it's harvest time it's harvest time the
first thing that I noticed when I read
this Texas says that the harvest is
plentiful but the laborers are few
and so the first thing we notice is that
there's a lot of work to do but not
enough folks to do it sounds like us
that Providence amen there's a lot of
work to be done but there's only a few
people to get it done so what are we
going to do people of God because I'm
not sure that this text is just about
those disciples
I think this text is also about us but
Jesus is telling the disciples that the
time is right to share the good news
about the father to share that salvation
is near that God's love his mercy is
available to all his forgiveness is
available to those who were repent of
their sins and acknowledge me the time
is ripe for the picking there's a lot of
folks who need to hear the gospel isn't
this timeless because the harvest is
plentiful and the laborers are few but
it doesn't mean that we shouldn't go
there's so many people outside of this
church building so many people in our
communities that need to hear that God
loves them they need to hear that God's
got a plan and a purpose for their life
so many people are walking around
without hope what are we doing about it
so many people need to know that there
is a better way and this is what Jesus
wanted the disciples to understand you
must understand in this text John the
Baptist has been beheaded and remember
John the Baptist did his job well
repent for the kingdom of God is near
and he kept telling them repent be
baptized he did his job with enthusiasm
with joy with faithfulness and now the
followers must be the forerunners for
Christ and he says to them when you go
pray that God the Father will make your
hearts ready to receive the the harvest
pray that the Lord of harvest will send
out more people more believers more in
church they need you so what do we have
to do in order to prepare for the
harvest we got to prepare our own hearts
amen
before we can go and try to help
somebody else we got to help ourselves I
don't know about you but when I'm not
prayed up I know it because I can get
irritable easy anybody know what I'm
talking about but when I'm prayed up
somehow I can keep it in perspective and
then I can also be objective that what's
my stuff and what somebody else's stuff
you know what I'm talking about
I'll be responsible for my stuff but I
can't be responsible for somebody else's
stuff you know what I'm talking about
amen you got to do the work on yourself
I was looking in the philosophy
Socrates he states that an unexamined
life it's a life not worth living Martin
Luther King jr. said it this way if a
man hasn't discovered something that he
will die for he isn't fit to live check
yourself
are you ready to receive the harvests
second thing that I noticed in this text
is that in order to be a disciple God
requires immediate obedience in action I
was 14 years old I was in the den I was
watching TV my mother called out her she
says Derrick come in here I want you to
go to the store for me and I said back
you know I'm 14 I'm a man at 14 right
and I said mama I'm watching TV
I'll come when I'm done
I should have known right she walked in
the road I didn't even hear her coming
that's what's really scared me
cuz I didn't have enough time to move
right she walked into the room she
turned the TV off and she said what did
you say that was my opportunity to but
I'm a man so I did what any man would do
I ducked I said mama I'm sorry I said
thank you for turning the TV off I'm
willing to go to the store and get
whatever you need me to get and she's
laughed and she smiled she gave me the
list I was happy to go but I saw it just
kind of like take a breath she's a ninja
I told you my mother's a ninja she kind
of did like this but in our house when
my mother told you to do something you
did it immediately immediately and
anything else you were considered
belligerent you do what you're told to
do that's the way it is in my mother's
house
that's what Jesus is requiring over the
disciples don't give me any lip service
too much lip service talking about what
we're going to do when my ship come in
what I have more time I'll give it to
the church I don't have any time right
now a lot of lip service anybody know
what I'm talking about and sometimes God
has a way of saying put your your mouth
that's the expression go
that's not the one I was looking for put
up or shut up put up or shut up that's
the one I was looking for my wife was
gonna make me take her example she said
put your money where your mouth it thank
you sweetheart that but God requires
obedience in action and the question
really is Hugh do we trust him because
if we trust him then why won't we obey
Him it's easy to say we trust him but
when we do something different
that's not how it should go you know
what I love about God God never asked us
to do something that God himself is not
prepared to do God has never asked us to
make a sacrifice and wasn't willing to
make one he gave His only begotten Son
listen to Philippians 2 verse 8 it says
him being found in the form he humbled
himself by becoming obedient to the
point of death even the death on the
cross jesus knew what he would do he
knew that he would be obedient to the
father if this cup could pass from me
nevertheless not my will but thy will be
done he would be obedient what about us
are we obedient and Matthew 16 verse 24
says it like this whoever wants to be my
disciples you must first deny yourself
then take up your cross and follow me
14 says says it like this if you love me
you will keep my Commandments a
Christian who was not obeying Christ
Commandments could rightly be asked in
and do not do the things that I say you
said that you are Christian you said
that you loved me you said that wherever
I send you you said you would go why do
you call me Lord Lord you're not even
gonna do what I've asked you to do God
requires obedience from us immediate
obedience in action the third thing that
I noticed in this tax is that he says
I'm going to send you out as lambs among
wolves
we are to go out in love and peace with
grace sharing God's good news but he
says I send you out as lambs because I
don't want you to be like the wolves you
know the wolves are always violent
always irritable wolves keep drama going
y'all know what I'm talking about Jesus
I want you to be peaceful but here's one
thing about the wolves they see the
Lambs as easy prey but they know the
shepherd Jesus says lo I'll be with you
even unto the ends of the earth when I
was in the Marine Corps and I was at war
in Iraq
I took the promises of God with me
nothing shall separate me from his great
love not famine that nekkid is an
apparel nuts or life wood nothing should
separate me from the great love that is
in Christ Jesus he's faithful to us
amen Jesus says to them when you go
don't take a purse don't take us a staff
a stick nothing but when you go
basically clothe yourself with my trust
know that I'll be there for you know
that everything is going to be all right
what a good message sometimes we need to
hear that that everything is going to be
all right this past week I was at a
clergy meeting and so many of the clergy
were were upset about what was happening
in Charlottesville for what happened in
Charlottesville and I said why do y'all
act like you're surprised that life goes
on
stuff happens the real question is what
are you prepared to do one person said
well I'm only one person would you
expect me to do I said I expect you to
pray I expect you to use knee ology you
know what's available to us when we pray
God said that we could move a mount and
tell that mountain be cast into the sea
and it would have to do it that's
available to us when we pray so are we
praying for our communities are we
praying for our leaders or we praying
for our country I didn't say whether you
were complaining because we're good at
that I was asking are we praying are we
using knee ology as my grandmother would
say so much power available to us Jesus
sends them out they come back and they
said Lord we did some great stuff in
your name Jesus says don't be so happy
that they they submitted the enemy
submitted when you prayed or you were
able to rebuke the enemy
be grateful that your names are written
talking about the book of life whatever
we do for the Lord we ought to give our
best amen
we ought to do it with all of our hearts
with all of our soul with all about
strength and with all of our might dr.
King would say it this way whatever God
has given us to do we ought to do it so
well that the living the dead or the
unborn couldn't do it any better he says
if it falls your lot to be a
streetsweeper go out and sweep streets
like Michelangelo painted pictures sweep
streets like Beethoven composed music
and Shakespeare wrote poetry sweep
streets so well that all the hosts of
heaven and earth will have to pause and
say here lived a great street sweeper
who swept his job well if you can't be
the plan on the top of the hill be the
scrub in the valley but be the best
little scrub on the side of the rail you
can't be a highway just be a trail if
you can't be the Sun be a star for it
isn't by size that we win oh we failed
be the best of whoever you are God is
sending you it's harvest time the time
is ripe to do right it's harvest time
it's time for us to go into the
communities share the love of Christ
with someone
extend what God has given to you to
another on your lips there's hope on
your lips there's grace in your hands
there's power on your knees there's even
greater power how many of you know what
I'm talking about
let us pray it's harvest time it's
harvest time
most gracious God we are so grateful for
your love for us and for the ways in
which you send us you're always sending
always calling there's no one time
called thank you for teachers and
students in principals and
administrators
thank you for secretaries
thank you for janitors who keep the
building's clean so much happens behind
the scenes the Lord we lift up our
children school year is coming prepare
us keep us safe help us to remember that
it's harvest time and now Lord I pray
for our sick we lift up Fran Fitch she's
transitioning
she's been an incredible saint one who's
loved you and have served you
we pray for Myrtle Jenkins who's
transitioning and another beautiful lady
who understood the Havas thank you for
Laura Griggs and for Barbie ves who
understand what it means to equip those
of us who go out always offering a class
or disciple class equipping us to do the
great work that you've called us to
thank you for Pam Asbury Kelly Kinghorn
Beverly Brooks offer their leadership to
this church and giving us the very very
best now let us pray that prayer that
Jesus taught his disciples our Father
who are in heaven hallowed be thy name
thy kingdom come thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power and the
glory forever and ever
with the ushers come forth that we might
our scripture reading comes from the
Gospel of Matthew chapter 14 verses 22
to 33 immediately he made the disciples
get into a boat and go ahead to the
other side while he dismissed the crowds
and after he had dismissed the crowds he
went up to the mountain by himself to
pray when evening came he was there
alone but by this time the boat battered
by the waves was far from the land for
the wind was against them and early in
the morning he came walking towards them
on the sea but when the disciples saw
him walking on the sea they were
terrified saying it's a ghost and he
cried out and they cried out in fear
but immediately Jesus spoke to them and
says take heart it is I do not be afraid
Peter answered lord if it is you command
me to come to you on the water
he said come so Peter got out of the
boat started walking on the water
somebody say started walking on the
water and came towards Jesus but when he
noticed the strong when he became
frightened beginning to sink he cried
out lord save me Jesus immediately
reached out his hand and caught him
saying to him you of little faith why
did you doubt when they got into the
boat the wind ceased and those in the
boat worshiped him saying truly you are
the son of God
may the Lord had a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's holy word
made sing deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God let us pray father I am a sinner
saved by your grace grateful for
salvation I'm a broken vessel but all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hide this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen thank
you I'll take that our men Horace wimpy
shares a story about a man named Larry
Walters who was always wanted to be a
pilot but a because of his eyesight he
was only able to become a mechanic in
the Air Force after he retired he got
this wild and crazy idea he went to an
army surplus store he bought a tank of
helium and 540 I mean 45 weather
balloons he strapped the balloons to his
lawn chair which he had staked to the
ground he expected that when he cut the
rope he would drift slowly into the air
I'm not sure that he had a way to come
down but
when he cut the rope he flew rapidly
into the air finally leveling off at
11,000 feet in the air eventually a
Coast Guard helicopter shot him a line
and was able to bring him to the ground
safely when asked what in the world
would that's crazy what why did you do
that and he said a man can't just sit
around all of his life sometimes he just
needs to get up and get out of his
comfort zone
we all have comfort zones don't we today
I want to challenge your thinking with
this thought has God ever given your
comfort zone a squeeze as I was thinking
of how I would answer this question
myself
I thought about transitions every time
that there was a transition in my life
my comfort zone got the squeeze I joined
the United States Marine Corps not
really knowing what I was doing I did
that and I went to Beaufort South
Carolina at Parris Island let me tell
you my comfort zone got a real good
squeeze and then I would say when I got
married my comfort zone got a squeeze
because God's math is different one in
one doesn't become two one in one
becomes one the two shall become one is
what the scripture says and so you're
learning each other and so forth and
it's just different so that's another
time but as I think of when my comfort
zone got the squeeze every time there's
been a major transition in my life my
comfort zone got the squeeze
if I were to quickly summarize this text
this Texas basically where some people
would give Peter a common denomination
and would say Peter should be commended
for getting out of the boat there's a
whole nother group who say that we need
to discipline Peter because his face his
faith faltered and he began to doubt but
the fact is that Jesus saved Peter
and so often time when this Texas
preached we can conclude the following
be courageous get out of the boat but
keep your eyes on Jesus but I think that
there's a lot more for us to gain from
this pericope of texts what I love about
this and the first thing that I notice
is that Jesus before he dispersed the
crowd told the disciples you get into a
boat go to the other side and I'll meet
you there the scripture doesn't say
where they were to me but just that they
were to get into the boat and go to the
other side and then it says that he went
to a mountain to pray he took time to
retreat when was the last time you took
time spiritual time to get away and to
retreat how many of you know that just a
little talk with Jesus makes it all
right
but Jesus the Son of God pulling away
from the busyness of life pulling away
from all that was going on to spend some
quiet time with the father I think that
Jesus gives us a great example for
balance my chaplain and the Marine Corps
we talk every single day and he's like a
walking encyclopedia he reads like four
or five books a week
and I said to him chap what comes to
mind when you think about retreat he
says I don't do enough of it it's the
thing that I need to do more of in my
life it's kind of like the Apostle Paul
the Apostle Paul says the things that I
know that I should do I'm not doing it
and the things that I shouldn't be doing
that's what I'm doing
anybody can testify but if we want to
grow in the faith if we want a closer
walk with God then we need to find times
to retreat so that we can grow
spiritually when I think of retreat I
came across an article in the LA lemis
magazine and it talked about the
importance of retreats first it talked
about the word retreated means to pull
away to pull back pulling away from the
busyness of life so a retreat is that
place where you and I can go to get away
from the busyness of the world how many
of you know it's easy to become a human
doing rather than a human being because
we just constantly on the go constantly
doing things sometimes I think that my
eyes are connected to my bottom because
the moment I sit down I fall asleep
anybody else it's easy to become our
human doing rather than a human being
but we need to withdraw from our regular
schedule pull away so that we can be
re-energized so that we can be
replenished we can gather our focus
hopefully in a retreat we gained a new
perspective we regroup we find that
inspiration that we were looking for
maybe if we take time to retreat we
might come back to our lives doing
things different thinking in a new way
the first thing that we notice in this
text is that Jesus retreated to have
some time with his father thus giving us
the example of balance the Sexson second
thing that I noticed in this text is
that Jesus reveals himself who he is
you remember my friends that this
miracle of Jesus walking on the water
it's recorded in three of the Gospels
it's recorded in John and Mark and here
in Matthew but it comes on the heels of
the lesson that we read last week the
feeding of the 5,000 but somehow
scholars believe that this miracle was
the one in which Jesus revealed himself
that his disciples had never forgotten
Jesus told them to get into a boat go to
the other side and then a storm came the
boat was maybe taken in water was beaten
it was battered the winds were strong
the Skype disciples were afraid and then
they see the phenomenon Jesus walking on
the water towards them in Scripture says
they were terrified is it a ghost you
wipe your eyes you look again
no that's Jesus walking he's walking on
the water but Jesus says to them take
heart it is
I he reveals himself not as Jesus not as
their master a rabbi but as the I am a
more literal translation of this
sentence should be take heart I am do
not be afraid you know the I am the
beginning the end the Alpha in the Omega
you know I can remember when I read the
tax and Moses is being asked to go and
to talk to Pharaoh Moses says God but
who should I tell him sent me and God
says tell him I am since you my first in
my last name I am Jesus is the I am and
we go back to John 1 in the beginning
was the word and the Word was with God
and the Word was God in the beginning
all things that were made were made
through him not one thing was made
without him down in verse 14 it says and
he became flesh and dwelt among us the I
am is being revealed in this text Jesus
is not just revealing himself with words
but with actions he's defying everything
that they know he's defying the elements
when Tyler was talking to the children
he says have you ever splashed in water
they said yes and have you ever jumped
into a lake and they said yes but he
didn't ask have you ever walked on water
Jesus came walking on the water
according to
job nine God alone stretched out the
heavens and trampled on the waves of the
sea psalm 89 verse nine the psalmist
exalts the Lord you rule over the
surging sea when the waves mount up
you still them the midst of the sea when
it's churning Jesus does what only God
can do this is what's called the
theophany the manifestation of God and
in tangible way for human senses in
Matthew's Gospel Jesus reveals himself
in a great way to the disciples you're
implicitly be then why did Jesus walk on
the water I think one of the reasons
that Jesus walked on the water was to
show them that the thing that they were
fearing at the moment they need not fear
because he has all power Jesus came
walking on the water I don't know what
your struggles are today I don't know
what difficulty you might be
experiencing maybe an illness a loss of
a loved one financial hardships but you
too need to discover that Jesus is near
to us just as he was to Peter when he
reached out his hand and grabbed him
just as he was to the disciples when he
stepped into the boat just as he is here
with us this day and even as we pray for
our brothers and our sisters in
charlottesville but then why didn't they
recognize them I'm so glad you asked
that question I think they didn't
recognize him because they wasn't
looking for him
their minds were on the storm
sometimes that's what happens to us when
we're in the midst of the storm is hard
to worship when we're in the middle of a
storm it's hard to think about anything
else except that thing that's happening
to us
when we're going through it but notice
what happens Peter says law bid me to
come to you and he starts walking on the
water he looks down and he begins to
sink he cries out to Jesus he takes his
hand now notice the disciples are
watching all of this is happening right
in front of them and I don't know about
you but I wonder what was happening to
their faith as they saw what they saw
but it says as Peter and Jesus got into
the boat the saw the storm ceased it
stopped and then they began to worship
they said truly you are the son of God
notice they didn't say truly you are
great prophet truly you a great rabbi no
they said truly you are the son of God
when we
through the storm sometimes our comfort
zone gets a squeeze all of us are
surrounded by comfort zones those
invisible barriers that make us feel
cozy and secure comfort zones develop
after we have done things for a
particular way for a long period of time
unfortunately they can make us feel so
comfortable that we don't take the
necessary leaps of faith I came across
this story it was about a spy who was
captured and sentenced to death in the
Persian army before carrying out the
sentence the general gave the spy a
strange choice he told him that he could
have his choice of a firing squad or he
can go through a big black door that he
pointed to after much deliberation the
spy chose the firing squad and within
moments he was gone the general turned
to his aide and said they always prefer
the known way as opposed to the unknown
the aide then asks what's behind the
black door freedom replied the general
behind the black door is a passageway
that leads outside but only a few have
been brave enough to see what's behind
it fear can be that big black door that
keeps us trapped in our comfort zones
but in order to be free of what
imprisons us we must be brave enough to
go through the door how many of you know
the only way out is through the only way
out
is through but when we think about our
comfort zones it means change it means
doing something different and that's not
what we want to do I've heard it said
this way the the only person who likes
change is a baby with a dirty diaper
amen
we don't want our comfort zones to get
the squeeze don't you change that light
bulb that light bulb has been there for
50 years
my daddy put that light bulb in there
don't you change it we don't like change
don't you buff that floor you see that
mark that was made by my grandfather's
wheelchair was right there don't you
touch it somehow we think it's going to
be better inside we know that it won't
be think about prisoners for a minute in
prison inmates don't have to make
decisions they don't have to worry about
house payments they don't have to worry
about insurance payments where their
next meal is coming from clothing all
it's taken care of for them and
statistics say that's the reason that
some commit crimes as soon as they're
released because they want that security
however the real danger for us also as
our comfort zones can become our prisons
so what do we need to do we've got to
move past our fear what I like
about this story is that Peter said Lord
if it's you bid me to come to you and
the scripture says he got out of the
word and he started walking on the water
fear the acronym for fear is false
evidence appearing real false evidence
appearing real have you ever gone
through something in you so worried
about what's going to happen and and
then when it happens it's really not
that bad but you created the fear within
yourself anybody when I had the eye
surgery I couldn't even sleep I was
worried about them sticking the needle
in my eye and sticking this laser in my
eye and it really wasn't that bad I
don't wish that on anybody let me just
say that but it wasn't that bad but it
was the fear that I created within
myself that made it worse than it really
is but in order to break out our comfort
zones we have to face our fear we have
to move forward at a pace that allows us
to grow without being paralyzed by fear
we can't always play it safe I think
that the first story that I read to you
with the guy in the helium and the in
the balloons it's a kind of a crazy
story but maybe we need to do something
crazy for spiritual growth moving out of
our comfort zones I've heard it said
this way if you can run walk if you
can't walk crawl if you can't
all just inch along but by all means
keep moving I used to tell people this
not afraid of death I know where I'm
going when it's over and not because I
did anything so so well I know where I'm
going what I'm afraid of
is stagnation I don't want to become
stagnant in my walk with the Lord I
don't want to be lukewarm or cold
anybody know what I'm talking about but
if he came back today I want to be on
fire for the Lord I want to be able to
take great steps of faith but we can't
take great steps if we have the fear of
failure what's going to happen if I fail
what's going to happen
if it doesn't work out I'd rather fail
at trying to do something than to
succeed at doing nothing if the master
were to come back today I would hope
that the master would see me trying to
do something amen anybody
rather than succeeding at doing nothing
proverbs 24 says for a righteous man may
fall seven times but he will rise again
how many of you know that Babe Ruth and
his career hits 714 home runs but did
you know that he struck out 1330 times
how many of you know that Jonas Salk
discovered the polio vaccine but did you
know he failed 200 times before he came
up with the right one Michael Jordan who
we love and we admire probably one of
the greatest basketball players who ever
lived but did you know he was cut from
his high school basketball team I can
imagine what that coach is saying today
but he didn't stop there and didn't see
it as a failure Henry Ford went bankrupt
five times before he finally succeeded
Thomas Edison failed over 10,000 times
in his attempt to find the right
filament for the life of one of his
aides encouraged him to just give up we
failed too many times Thomas Edison said
now we know hundreds of ways not to do
it none of these people could have
accomplished
what they did if they had stayed in
their comfort zones some of us right
here we're in our comfort zone we're
retired and we say hey look I'm riding
on the bed of ease right now don't ask
me to do anything I'll pay my tithes
I'll come to the church for the one hour
but don't ask me to get involved I'm
retired
that's a comfort zone and my prayer
today is that God will give your comfort
zone a squeeze so that you will do gods
bidding hey any friend worth their
weight in gold wants you to be where God
wants you to be amen so I just want you
to be where God wants you to be so we're
not calling you and ask for your help
I hope you'll do it I love the acronym
for frog anybody knows what the acronym
for frog means fully rely on God and I
say this because there is the fear of
the unknown and some of us are saying
Lord you created texts you created
Twitter just tell me what you want me to
do text it to me tweet me put it on
Facebook and then I'll know what it is
that you want me to do but God doesn't
quite work that way does he we have to
trust him in order to break out of our
comfort zone Tyler I know you appreciate
this 12 men walked on the moon but only
one man besides Jesus who was fully
human and fully divine walked on the
water and that's Peter don't take your
eyes off Jesus he's just a prayer away
just the little talk where Jesus makes
it alright lastly remember to be
courageous get out of the boat
but keep your eyes on Jesus
let us pray Lord you are an amazing God
it's amazing how you send Jesus to Mary
to raise him up to die for all of us
that we might be in relationship with
you but Lord we are so grateful that
this Jesus that we talked about this
morning is always advocating for us
assuring us to be better not bitter but
better always teaching us a better way
to please you but we know that without
faith it's impossible to please you Lord
grant us great faith today touch our
faith open our minds to all of your
possibilities the wonders of your powers
it's amazing and Lord we know that
anything that you call us to do you will
also equipped us to do it
thank you for Providence United
Methodist Church a place where trelaina
Walker got her humble beginnings has
gone on to Nashville and to do great
things but found her way home what a
blessing it is for us
while the break us out of our comfort
zones so that we can pray for the
healing of our world the healing of our
nation our only survival is a revive of
spiritual revival now Lord I ask that
you would be with our sick
and our shut-in stop by their home stop
by the hospitals and lift them up Lord
lift up their countenance we pray for
Fran Fitch who's making her journey we
pray for Myrtle Jenkins we pray for
great gray Mars we pray for Jack who's
cancer has come back we pray over them
that you might strengthen them in every
way send them what they need give us the
courage to serve you and now let us pray
that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples our Father who are in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done
give us this day our daily bread and
forgive us our trespasses as we forgive
those who trespass against us and lead
us not into temptation but deliver us
from evil for thine is the kingdom the
power and the glory forever and ever
amen
came across this wonderful story and it
it was entitled saved by a pair of tiny
angels and under the heading it says a
trouble man who steps into a church is
lifted by two heavenly little girls and
the story goes like this
Scotch burned my throat on the way down
finally I waited hours for my favorite
bar to open it wasn't even noon yet I
couldn't deny it anymore my drinking was
out of control and I was scared out of
my mind how are things
Jim asked Betty the bartender I shrugged
and I looked around the place was dim
none of the customers wanted to see
anything too clearly but I could make
out a few faces against the wood
paneling a man in a rumpled coat hunched
over a woman with dark circles under her
eyes a guy with no teeth sipping a beer
compared to them I look great in my
designer jeans an expensive haircut my
BMW waiting outside in the rain but
instead I was just as miserable as all
of them I knew I should be happy I was
smart I was a good salesman I had my own
business for a while had even been
successful but none of it made me happy
once I asked the doctor about it I said
don't you have some kind of pills to to
make me happy
the doctor shook his head and said
spills aren't the answer you need to
find some peace in your life maybe
exercise would help or meditating
do you go to church I hadn't been the
church in years
sometimes just going to church will make
you feel better the doctor said and then
he says going to church is a good place
to think I didn't take the doctors
advice I had found my own way of lifting
my spirits the worst things got the more
I drank and I told myself I didn't have
a problem that I had it under control
then one morning I woke up needing a
drink so bad my hands shook in my head
ache I stepped out into the grey wet
parking lot the rain pattering on my
head was just another reminder of life
gone wrong I had to get away but where
the doctors words came back to me the
church it's a good place to think I
drove out to Manhattan Beach a steeple
rose in the sky up ahead of me and I
parked in front of the church and I
gazed up through it through the
windshield might as well go in I don't
have anywhere else to be I dashed
through the rain and ducked inside the
church and it was empty but I slipped
into the back row now what I wondered I
felt so desperate and alone
I couldn't even appreciate the silence
but I heard a sound way up in the front
of the altar two little girls were
lighting candles the warm glow of the
flames was soothing I had forgotten how
beautiful votive candles can be and then
I began to talk to God I don't know what
to do god I'm here
I'm scared i rambled on watching the
candles flicker in the darkness and I
told God about my business troubles I
told God about my drinking problem about
the happiness that I couldn't find I
know things have to change I told God
but I don't know how I just don't want
to be miserable anymore show me how to
be happy
Lord show me how to start up at the
altar the little girls finished lighting
their candles and they walk down the
aisle hand-in-hand they seem so happy
they looked alike maybe they were twins
but as they pass my Pew the girls turned
together and they gave me summer smiles
a nodded to them how how sweet to be
friendly to a stranger I thought what it
must be like to have that kind of
happiness I said there this was the
first bright light in my life after a
few moments I stood up I got in all that
I was supposed to get out of visiting
this church didn't really solve my
problems so much for the doctors advice
let me get ready for the world
I ducked my head down and I ran to my
car feet splashing through the puddles
and just as I was about to open the car
door something on the windshield caught
my eye I pulled the damn piece of paper
out from behind the wiper it was a note
written in a child's handwriting and it
simply said be happy
God loves you I looked at the church and
then back to the note rain poured into
my head down my my neck but I didn't
care
be happy God loves you
I scan the other cars in the parking lot
no other car had a note on the
windshield and these little girls
written this note to me
if so why had they stopped in the rain
to write a note and why did they only
put a note on my car and how did they
know what car was mine I got into the
car my mind full of questions when with
the girls have gotten a crayon and a
piece of paper I didn't even see them
have anything in their hands they didn't
even have a raincoat and then I felt
something what just happened
I felt something change inside of me at
first I wasn't sure what I only knew
that I felt different something had
lifted from me I didn't want to drink
the cravings that I had lived with for
months had vanished instantly and in its
place was something new it was hope the
desire to drink never returned and I
started attending a a meetings to learn
new ways of dealing with my problems but
I was on the way to finding happiness I
knew where to start and I started with
knowing that God loves me
and I had a crayon bright note from my
twin angels to tell me so I like this
story because sometimes we're just like
Jim and the story sometimes life happens
and we lose hope we may not say it out
verbally but we lose hope anybody's ever
been shaken by life life has life ever
thrown you a curve ball anybody and
sometimes we we lose hope and for Jim he
had these twin angels they let him know
that that God loves him me and Joshua we
love to sing the song and I just want to
sing it Jesus this I know for the Bible
tells me so
let who wants to him belong they are
weak but he is strong yes jesus loves me
yes jesus loves me yes jesus loves me
somehow that song gives me hope
Martha Mooney see she wrote this poem
and she put it this way I know the plans
I know the plans I have for you I know
just what you're going through so when
you can't see what tomorrow holds and
yesterday is through remember I know the
plans I have for you I know the plans I
have for you I know just what you're
going through so when you can't see what
tomorrow holds and yesterday is through
remember I know the plans I have for you
to give you hope for tomorrow joy for
your sorrows strength for everything you
go through remember I know the plans I
have for you
here's what I want you to know nothing
happens to any of us outside of God's
knowledge he knows can you say that he
knows nothing happens to us outside of
God's knowledge God knows
I don't know about you but the kind of
God that I serve that when I'm going
through something God also goes through
it he weeps when I weeps and he rejoices
when I rejoice and isn't that's what
we're supposed to do with our friends
but that's the kind of God that we serve
my friends sometimes our situation may
not turn around just when we think that
is going to turn around but maybe the
solace might be and the fact that God is
there because he promised always to be
there in this particular text is so
powerful we we hear these words I know
the plans I have for you plans to
prosper you to give you hope and to give
you a future and we quote it we see it
on t-shirts and that's wonderful
but the question is do we really
understand what was going on when
Jeremiah said those words to the people
of Israel Jeremiah the Prophet he lived
in the final days of the crumbling
nation of Israel he was appropriately
called the last prophet because he was
sent to preach to the southern kingdoms
which was comprised of the tribes of
Judah and Benjamin God had repeatedly
warned Israel what would happen if they
stayed on the path that they were on God
had been good to them but they had
forgotten God's goodness they had turned
to live their own way they turned to do
their only thing which would felt good
to them that's what they did no more
that they follow God's covenant it was a
situation of moral decline and the
Prophet Jeremiah you got to think he was
17 years old when God called him and the
Prophet Jeremiah is telling them and hey
look God is saying be careful
turn back to God give God your heart
he's given us time but Israel would not
listen and the Prophet Jeremiah is known
as the weeping prophet you could imagine
him standing for the people of Judah and
pleading with them to turn their hearts
back to God and then Jeremiah vuy this
is my life I'm gonna do what I want to
do anybody ever heard that
this is where the people of Judah was
this is my life I'm gonna do what I want
to do and God removed his favor his
grace
for time the ten northern tribes went
into captivity by the Assyrians and
these two tribes captured by the
Babylonians and you're saying whoa and
they've been in captivity for a while
jeremiah with them and now we have these
words but I wondered did Judah know it
was coming I mean the Prophet Jeremiah
he prophesied he told them what would
happen but that they believed it was
coming because that's how life is
sometimes sometimes life throws a
curveball in and we don't see it but you
know what I'm talking about you know
sometimes where you get the good news we
know what that's like the surgery was
successful
you know you apply for a job and you got
it
the baby was born healthy you got into
the College of your choice we know all
the good news and you remember these
things with a smile but then there's
times when we get the news that the baby
was born but the surgery was not so
successful you get the letter from the
President of the United States says that
you know we want to inform you of
doesn't sound good does it this is where
the people of Judah was wondering if it
was ever going to get better this is it
this is my lot in life to be in
captivity I mean we know we serve a
loving God one of my friends he shared
with me that his daughter was respectful
to her mother and he says did you talk
to my wife like I think you just spoke
to my wife to his daughter and she says
but daddy mom made me mad he says you
won't drive that car for six months do
you understand now you go back in there
and you apologize to your mother
she went into the room she apologized to
her mother but you know how it is when
we get in trouble we think that it's
gonna be over as soon as we say we're
sorry right
no one month went by daddy can I Drive
the car
no sweetheart I told you six months
after three months surely he was gonna
change his mind I mean me mom's cool
everything's good nope when six months
is over you get your keys back and you
can drive the car why am i sharing that
story with you
you look at this text what's so powerful
about the text listen to this it says
when seventy years are completed for
Babylon I will come to you and fulfill
my gracious promise and bring you back
to this place for I know the plans I
have for you
you see we only quote that one verse but
we don't want to quote that it was
seventy years that they were in
captivity well I know the plans I have
for you declares the Lord plans to
prosper you and not to harm you plans to
give you hope in the future then you
will call upon me and come and pray to
me and I will listen to you you will
seek me and find me when you seek me
are called by my name will humble
themselves and pray and seek my face and
turn from their wicked ways then will
they hear from heaven then will I heal
their land
how many of you know that God's presence
is greater than any circumstance that we
could ever go through God's presence is
greater when Jeremiah uttered these
words he was reminding the people that
God cares that God still cares that God
has a plan and the purpose and what we
need to understand is that God's plan
for us is always to prosper us if you
read the scripture God speaks in the
cohort ative he says do this so that I
might bless you God wants to bless us
God is desirous in blessing us and he
wants to prosper us we've got to turn
from our own ways of doing it our way
and we have to do it God's Way but
here's three things that I want you to
think about if life is not going the way
that you had hoped remember that God has
not forgotten you you are not forgotten
maybe God hasn't m2c but you need to put
yet right there amen
you see that's how the enemy will come
the enemy will tell you that God doesn't
care about you that God doesn't love you
because of your circumstance but what
you need to say when you pray is God I
know you haven't done it yet but I know
that you will because God can Amen and
trust God sometimes we believe Satan's
lies even more than we believe in the
promises of God and then number two
evaluate yourself this is good for any
of us look in your own life and see if
there's anything that you need to give
to God I can remember when I first
became a believer 19 years old God had
to straighten up my tongue anybody know
what I'm talking about
I was at home one time I must have been
about 17 and I had my boys in the in in
my bedroom nobody's home so me and the
boys we were in there talking bad you
know flim-flam playing playing fill him
in and the lady next door was blind and
her hearing was really really shocked
she called my mother and told my mother
that Derick was in there cussing hi my
mother came home and I got us a whippin
at 17 years old for cussing in the house
and mama wasn't even home
what's the justice in that where's the
justice in that friends we need to
evaluate ourselves if there's anything
in there that's not of God ask God to
take it away and then number three
here's a question for you where are you
spending your time where are you
spending your time because wherever
you're spending your time that's your
treasure and we got to evaluate
ourselves am i spending quality time
with God I don't want to look in your
life I can't answer that question for
you but only you can where are we
spending our time are we giving God some
time are we having daily talks with God
are we having prayer breaks with God how
are we spending our time God has a plan
for you it doesn't matter whether you're
young or old God has a plan for you that
doesn't matter whether you're single
engaged married divorced or widowed God
has a plan for you rich or poor it
doesn't matter
male or female it doesn't matter
employed unemployed retired it doesn't
matter
God has a plan for you it doesn't matter
whether you are african-american
Caucasian Latino Asian Chinese Filipino
and we can go on and on it doesn't
matter
God has a plan for you even when you
can't see it even when you don't feel it
God has a plan for you let us pray
most gracious Scott
people of Judah have forgotten who you
are sometimes even in our own country in
our own world there's moral decline some
homes there's no prayer we've taken
proud of the schools we've taken prayer
out of the public domain and we are left
vulnerable Lord father speak to us maybe
we need to turn our hearts back to you
if the hearts of stone give us hearts of
flesh so that we might love you and
serve you all the days of our lives
and that your word might prosper right
here on this earth Lord give us a burden
for lost souls those who imprison those
who are outside these doors who don't
know you let us be the light Lord we
know it can make all the difference let
us be instruments of your love and of
your grace and of your peace in our
homes furs and our workplaces in our
church and our respective communities
let your healing hand rest upon us so
that we might show others the way to
lead to peace that we might show grace
and mercy and others might know who you
are father we lift up our sick in our
shut-in and we ask that you would have
your way in our lives we pray for the
leadership of our church we pray that we
might be all that you have called us to
be we ask that your will might be done
Lord there some here who were still
grieving only you can chase away the
dark clouds of gloom and bring back and
restore joy we ask that you would have
your way father we bless your name we
kiss your presence force in Christ's
name we pray amen
and now let us say that prayer that
Jesus taught his disciples
for your power right now I pray that you
would open our hearing that we might
hear from you I pray that you would hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me
and that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray this
scripture seems so simple as we read it
it seems like just an episode in the
life and times of those times but it
begs a few questions how does God fit in
to our lives of the ordinary how does
God fit in with our ordinary schedules
because God is not ordinary after all in
the history of the church not many of
God's people have been able to be like a
dl moody or Charles Spurgeon or to speak
to pack stadiums like Billy Graham TD
jakes or Joyce Meyer so Joel Osteen most
of God's people are just simple ordinary
folks who are not politically powerful
or famous just ordinary people living
ordinary lives except for the fact that
our lives become extraordinary when God
enters in amen all we need is a little
bit of God amen we have a little bit of
God it's concentrated if you will and
it's all we need it makes all of the
difference it doesn't matter how young
we are or how old we are God can use us
and take the ordinary and do
something extraordinary with our lives
if we let him as we think of Abraham's
life you know we've had the miracle of
Sarah having Isaac in her old age and I
don't know that I would want to be a
parent at a hundred years old but they
they were parents at a hundred years old
and it was this miracle but other than
that it seems as though Abraham's life
is just ordinary everyday there's no
spectacular spectacular episode is just
ordinary taking care of the animals
making sure that there's water for his
family and his flock and you know taking
care of a sick animal maybe one has gone
astray and finding them or dealing with
the squabbles of his servants but his
life seems ordinary and yet it becomes
extraordinary when God shows up I love
the scripture says I can do somebody
went to Sunday school I can do all
things it didn't say I can do one thing
really good it says I can do what
because God is with us it makes all the
difference
when I read this text I said you know we
should never say to ourselves that maybe
God doesn't want to use me because I'm
ordinary not after reading this
scripture God can use any of us the text
tells us that we should never say I'm
not talented or I'm not gifted enough
I'm not dynamic enough to be used by God
because God can use any of us are you
with me as we listen to the outline of
this text it teaches us a lot it's kind
of like broken down in four scenes the
first scene a
for him not wanting Isaac to marry just
anybody and not a Canaanite woman he
summons his servant to come in to to go
to his homeland to find a wife for him
and he says you swear to me that you
will do this he agrees and he goes seems
to the servant goes to his home lands
but notice what he does he prays
maybe we should emulate that before we
start on the journey before we start on
a gold or ambition the first thing that
we need to do is pray notice his prayers
very specific the God of Abraham he
doesn't even know God's name he just
knows that God has been faithful in
Abraham's life and so he says the God of
Abraham please give me success this day
let it happen that the young lady to
whom I will say please let down your
pitcher that I may drink and she will
say drink and I will also give your
camels a drink let her be the one you
have appointed for your servant and by
this I will know that you have shown
kindness to my master
notice how very specific his prayer was
what I love about this story is that
he's saying this prayer in his heart and
before he opened his eyes God had
answered his prayer there Rebekah shows
up and she's got this pitcher on her arm
and what does she do she gives him a
drink
not only does she give him a drink she
gives his camels a drink and they begin
to talk and he gives her a ring for her
nose I don't know about that and you
know I don't know about a ring in the
nose but
gives our a bracelet for the arm and he
asks whose daughter are you let me talk
to your father now the scripture doesn't
tell us but he's talks to Laban which is
a brother and they invite him into the
home and he tells them about this prayer
and notice what Laban says he asked her
first would you like to go with him and
she says yes and that's it she goes you
see with God things can be smooth they
men because it seems like in this story
God has already gone before this servant
he's already spoken to the heart of
Laban he's already spoken to the heart
of Rebekah why else would she just go
and have seen four she shows up to the
house and they see Isaac and she says
who was then he says that's my master
she veils herself and they meet he falls
in love with her I mean it's a beautiful
story but this is the story in a
nutshell and you say well what is this
story really about it's about God's
providence it's about God's provision
it's about us trusting in God even when
we may not be so desirous in trusting in
God you know what's really interesting
is that we don't trust easily do we most
of us operate from trust versus mistrust
we got to check you out first we got to
see if you were really who you say you
are
before we going to trust you and then we
ask the question why should I trust you
trusting is not so easy Wendelin
phillips talks about this she says we
because of that tendency we tend to
doubt God because we operate from a
place of mistrust versus trust we tend
to do the same thing when we deal with
God it's almost up to say I don't know
you got to show me I'm from Missouri you
got to show me God
even though God's got a great track
record how many of you know that God's
got a great track record in your family
your family's history God has been there
has been with them you probably will go
back and look in your mother's Bible and
your grandmother's Bible and you can see
all the gold nuggets of them talking to
God praying to God God has a faithful
track record but the problem is you and
I that we tend to attribute things to
God that we would attribute to anyone
else how many of you know that God is
trustworthy oh I heard two amens in the
end that's all right
merriam-webster dictionary defines trust
as the belief that someone or something
is reliable good honest or effective we
know that God embodies that definition
but the question is then why is it so
hard for us to trust him we live in a
environment where it's not easy to trust
and once again we attribute that in our
relationship with God we have statements
like it's too good to be true anybody
ever heard that statement it's too good
to be true sort of meaning that the
better someone is or someone sounds the
more likely we're to find fault in them
we can't believe that it's true but God
is who God says God is amen
it's almost like mistrusts comes to us
as a second nature we do it without even
thinking about it I can remember when I
looked at my wife and and I was like you
know dating her and I was the first one
to say I love you I admit it she's not
here I admit it and I was and I said you
know sweetheart I I love you and she
said you do I said yeah I'm you know I
love you she was like we'll see who says
that it was almost like we gonna check
this out you know and sometimes we think
of the same way with God that we're
gonna check God out that God's got to
prove himself first before we will trust
him but that's not what God wants from
us listen to Jeremiah 33 verse 3 he says
call me and I will answer you and show
you great and mighty things which you do
not know how can we learn to to trust in
God one of the ways that I think that we
can learn to trust God is through God's
Word through God's Word we can learn the
trust in and God meditate on the Word of
God day and night study to show thyself
approval workmen that need not be
ashamed but rightly dividing the word of
truth proverbs 3 verses 5 & 6 says trust
in the Lord with all thy heart and lean
but lean not until our own understanding
don't even trust yourselves don't trust
your emotions trust God is what proverbs
is telling us and so the question is why
not trust God if God has got a good
track record that's he's shown himself
to be true how many of you know that God
can't lie
grace in the first search services you
said that God can't lie God can do
anything God can lie I said no that's
not what the scripture says I say if we
need to know what the Word of God says
does God speak and not act that's not
our God does God make promises and then
not fulfill those promises
that's not our God
unlike humanity God has the power to
bring about everything that he desires
Isaiah 14 verse 24 says the Lord
Almighty has Swann surely as I've
planned so it will be and as I have
purposed
so it will stand furthermore his plans
are perfect they're holy and they're
righteous Romans 8 and 28 says for God
works all things for the good of those
who love him to those who are called
according to his purpose if we endeavor
to know him and to get close to God we
need to get close to the Word of God how
many of you know what I'm talking about
when I got saved at 19 years old I was
so excited about my salvation I got the
biggest Bible that I could find and I
went to Jackson Avenue Jackson Avenue is
the worst place in Jersey City and I
went there and I said I'm gonna preach
to somebody and and I'm gonna lead
somebody to the Lord now God didn't send
me I send myself let me just say that so
I go there and there's a man laying in
the gutter and I mean literally and I
said to him do you know Jesus Christ as
Lord and some of you are looking at me
like you're proud of me thank you so
much for that and he says have you ever
read the scripture that says judge not
that ye be judged I said no I haven't
read that one he's enemy he quoted like
ten scriptures to me I took off run and
I'll be honest with ya took off running
I went home I said in the floor I cried
and I told the Lord to forgive me but
that I was going to study his word and I
was going to study his word because the
next time I would be equipped to go out
and to do a great work that happened
when I was 19 years old now now I'm
humans in age and y'all caught it right
but thank God for every year that we get
to do this great work I would say to you
we need to trust God and then I'll ask
the question what other sensible
alternative do you have Proverbs tell us
not to trust in ourselves not to trust
in our own emotions but to trust God so
what's the other sensible alternative
when folks can be unpredictable sinful
unreliable we can be limited in our
wisdom then why would we not trust God
all-knowing all-powerful all purpose
filled gracious merciful loving God why
would we not trust God I love the
scripture 2nd Timothy chapter 3 verses
16 through 17 all scripture of God is
god-breathed
it is useful for teaching or rebuking
correcting and training in righteousness
so that a man or woman of God may be
thoroughly equipped for every good work
that's why we need to study the Word of
God if you want to get closer to God you
want to know what God's purpose is for
you you got to get closer and then you
got to trust him
1st Peter 5 verse 6 and 7 says humble
yourselves therefore under the mighty
hand of God so that at the proper time
he may exalt you
casting all of your anxieties on him
because he cares for you
Psalm 1 blessed is the man who trusts in
the Lord whose trust is in the Lord he
is like a tree planted by the waters and
sends out its roots by the stream and he
does not fear when the when the heat
comes for its leaves remain greened and
he's not anxious in the year of drought
for he does not cease to bear fruit
here's what I want you to hear today
more than anything God will meet us in
the mundane God will meet us in the
common places of our lives
you mean when my family and I are just
sitting down eating dinner
yes God will show up you mean when I'm
just sitting there paying the bills yes
God will show up you mean when I'm at
the soccer game with my with my
grandkids and my kids yes God will show
up you mean the one hour on Sunday when
I'm in worship yes God will show up in
the ordinary and in this when we are
close to God he can take our ordinary
make it extraordinary to be used of God
as an extraordinary thing God took a
preacher young boy from the streets of
Jersey City who all of my not all of my
teachers but one of my teachers said
that I would not be successful that I
was not college material and here I
stand with two masters degrees she don't
get to set my mental skies God does you
see when we are connected to God great
things can happen all we need is a
little bit of God amen all we need is a
little bit and it makes all the
difference my friends let us pray
God you are an amazing God you made it
possible for us to pray and you promise
to hear our prayers and to be near to us
that what we pray here on earth will be
ratified in heaven you promise to fill
our minds with your purpose and for many
of us it's just to be faithful it's to
make disciples of Jesus Christ for the
transformation of the world to share the
gospel with family and friends and
neighbors to offer a portion of what you
have given us to give back to the church
it's simple but you promise to be right
there in the midst of it we aren't to do
what we can do to make the lives of
others better that we are to worship you
in spirit and in truth father you said
that you would incline your here to us
Lord we're so grateful that you are God
who knows how to give your children good
gifts Lord we know that you can open the
windows of heaven and pour us out a
blessing that we won't have room to
receive so my prayer today Lord is that
you would feed us till we want no more
now Lord I ask that you bless our sick
and I'll shut in speak to their hearts
warm their spirits even as I pray even
blessed those who are not here and are
traveling in a way we love this church
Lord and we know you do too so now let
us pray that powerful
rather prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples our Father who are in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation
- the kingdom the power and the glory
forever and ever
but you are incredibly faithful so
loving and so kind Lord I pray today
that you would hide this preacher behind
the cross then your people might see you
and not me that they might hear you and
not me let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ's name we pray
amen today's texas lectionary and
whenever we get the lectionary text we
don't know what the reading is until
that time and we take a look at and I
can tell you that in looking at this
text and looking at the story of Abraham
ready to sacrifice Isaac there's always
been a tough thing that why would God
call upon Isaac to sacrifice his son but
I want to share some new nuances with
you as we go through the sermon of
things that I've learned but first I
want to share a story with you from
Reverend Steven foreigner and preaching
he shared a story of a man by the name
of Abram been injure born in Switzerland
in the 1700s he and his parents left
their homeland and boarded a ship for
America but during that journey both his
father and his mother died and were
buried at sea while just a boy he found
himself in a strange land where he knew
absolutely no one however he never let
his misfortunes hold him back and as a
young man he professed Jesus Christ as
Lord and Savior after hearing of the
great misery and poverty of the blacks
on the island of st. Thomas he sought to
travel there
to preach the gospel upon his arrival he
discovered that it was against the law
for any person but a slave to preach to
slaves it was the policy of the
plantation owners that keep the blacks
and ignorance and in superstition
shortly after this governor received a
letter from Binger and the letter he
pleaded with the governor to allow
himself to be made a slave for the rest
of his life
vinegar promised in that letter that he
would serve as a slave faithfully
providing he would be given his leisure
time to preaching the gospel to his
fellow slaves the governor and turned
sent the letter to the King of Denmark
who was so touched by the willingness of
Benning judge to sacrifice his freedom
for the gospel that he sent an order
that allowed Abraham Menninger to preach
the gospel whenever he wanted wherever
he wanted to whoever he chose whether
black white slave or free I was so
touched by this story to illustrate the
sacrifice of one's freedom and I thought
about the sacrifices that's been made in
this country I thought about our First
Amendment which someway I read about the
freedom of speech some way I read about
the freedom of press some way I read
about the freedom to practice religion
that's giving us the opportunity to
share the gospel of Christ with those
who've never heard it this man willing
to give his very freedom for the freedom
to preach
the gospel yet in our society today
where we have this great freedom of
religion to preach the gospel to share
the gospel with those who've never heard
it
and yet we practice it seldomly it's
Christians we need to realize that the
Christian faith it is a faith of
sacrifice I mean you look at the Old
Testament and there are all sorts of
sacrifices of animals the book of laws
laws that deals with sacrifices but
however the New Testament we see the
fulfillment of these sacrifices and then
there's a call to make a sacrifice not
of an animal but of ourselves listen to
Romans 12 verses 1 and 2 therefore I
urge you brothers and sisters by the
mercies of God to present your bodies as
a living and Holy Sacrifice acceptable
unto God which is your spiritual worship
and do not be conformed to this world
but be transformed by the renewing of
your mind so that you may prove what is
the will of God and what is the perfect
acceptable will of God God wants all of
our hearts amen he doesn't want some of
our hearts he wants all of our hearts so
I know the question is why does God
tests us but my question for us is why
do we get angry when we even think of
the fact that God would test us because
we test relationships all the time
amen you know the road trip tests when
you're dating somebody you take them on
a road trip a long trip because it's
gonna tell you a whole lot about
compatibility on that road trip how many
of you know what I'm talking about some
of you have done this and the questions
might go
like this can you stand each other for a
long period of time hello can you
compromise the music choices how do you
navigate the directions who decides on
the stops and how often are you on the
same page in the planning or the lack
thereof the bottom line is can you
copilot this trip together because it's
going to tell you a lot
it might revealed conflict resolution or
the ability to share quiet time together
or music compatibility or even more
general likeability however we get angry
when we hear that God wants to test us
but we test relationships all the time
amen I read about how a female eagle
chooses her mate when it comes to a
female eagle to choose her mate
she prepares herself for many suitors
and many come before her she looks them
over quite well and then she picks the
one that she wants to fly with unless if
she likes the way he flies then she'll
pick up a small stick and she'll fly
high and she'll drop that stick and that
male eagle will swoop down and pick up
the stick and if he catches it before it
falls she says all right then let me get
another stick let me get a bigger stick
and she will go a little higher this
time and she flies and she waits and she
drops the sticks and if he catches it
and this goes on for a period of time
until she gets something like a log
sighs it's heavy but she can still fly
with it she flies even higher and she
drops this log and if he fails to pick
it up she flies away from him like that
said you done peace out and then she
goes and she finds another eagle and
this process thoughts all over again
but at the
egle catches all the sticks and they
become mates for life but one of the
reasons for the test is simply this they
will find a nest high way up and they'll
have eaglets but when it comes time for
those eaglets to fly some may fall and
it's the father's job to swoop down and
to catch his young if an eagle has the
good sense to test her mate then why
shouldn't God test his children can I
get a Amen I heard a few of you said
Amen but we get angry when we think of
God testing his children but let me flip
the question why shouldn't God tests us
David understood this he realized that
that that God does a valuable thing when
he tests us and David didn't run from
God's testing but he sought it listen to
some 26 verse to prove me O Lord and try
me test my heart in my mind Psalm 139
verses 23 search me O God and know my
heart try me and know my thoughts David
didn't run from God's testing he ran to
God but let me get back to this pericope
of text when abraham was tested by god
in the matter of sacrificing Isaac I'm
going to say this to you and fatica Lee
that Isaac was never really in real
danger you see the
test was for Abraham and was not for
Isaac but what's so great about this
story is that Abraham obeyed and he
showed the world that he is the father
of faith therefore when God tests his
children his purpose is to prove that
our faith is real God didn't need to
prove that to himself he knows all
things
somebody say God is omniscient that
means that he knows everything he
encompasses all knowledge of the
universe past present and future in the
beginning God created the world and
everything in it including knowledge he
knew what would happen he knew even what
Abraham would do and he knew the time
that he needed to intercede I submit to
you today that Isaac was never any real
danger the test was for Abraham it was
not for Isaac are you with me
so then why does God tests us good
question I'm glad you asked when we're
tested he wants to see us persevere and
come out as pure gold testing results
and spiritual maturity and completeness
God wants to grow us up he doesn't want
us just to grow old in the church he
wants us to grow spiritually the battle
is not given to the Swift nor to the
strong but to the one that endures to
the end are you with me
James wrote it this way consider it joy
my brothers and sisters whenever you
face trials of many kinds the testing of
our faith can come in small ways daily
irritations it may come as an affliction
but whenever
we go through the testing it's so that
God can grow us up mature us is to allow
God to do a great work in our lives and
the parable of the sower Jesus
identified the one who falls away as
those who receive the seed of God's word
with joy but as soon as the time of
trial comes they fall away James says
that the testing our faith develops
perseverance which leads to maturity and
our walk with God James 1 verse 3 Jane
goes on to say that the testing is a
blessing because when the testing is
over and we have stood the test we will
receive a great crown of life which God
has promised to those who love him
for our good for those who love him and
for those who are called according to
his purpose what I'm so glad about our
God is that we're never tested beyond
what we can handle because we have the
power of God on our side how many of you
know what I'm talking about and what I
like about 2nd Corinthians chapter 12
verse 9 it says that His grace is
sufficient for us that his power is made
perfect in our weakness that is why the
Apostle Paul could say for Christ's sake
I delight in weakness and insults and
hardship and persecutions and
difficulties for when I am weak I am
strong the battle it's not given to the
Swift nor to the strong but to the one
who endures to the end what a strange
thing that guy
did in telling Abraham to offer Isaac as
a burnt offering how do you think that
Abraham must have felt about that test
maybe he was sad maybe he was confused
but what I want you to hear is that he
was obedient he he was obedient to God
even in something that he was afraid to
do even in something that he did not
want to do now I want you to think about
something that you treasure the most I
want you to get that into your mind now
think about it being taken away from you
or maybe even destroyed how would you
feel I notice is the difficult scripture
because when you when you look at it
Abraham and Sarah waited for this child
to be born Abraham was 75 he's now he
was a hundred years old when Isaac was
born and Sarah ninety and it was a
miracle that Isaac was born in the first
place now God was asking him to
sacrifice this very son and what about
the promise that his children would be
as many as the stars in the sky of the
sands of the sea how could this be
if Isaac died my friends perhaps this is
why Abraham was so able to be obedient
because he just trusted in the promises
of God
you know sometimes we're trying to
figure God out we want a clearer picture
we want God to journal in a book and
then give it to us we want God to tell
us what's going to happen next and it
doesn't work that way because we have to
trust him the Bible says
without faith is impossible to please
God maybe this is how Abraham was able
to do it it's just to trust God
I could imagine this story
Isaac is looking around he says I've
seen the the would not see the altar I
see the fire but where's the offering
where's the burnt offering notice what
Abraham says son God will provide for
himself a lamb for the burnt offering
Wow
he could have said Isaac you're the
offering this is it for you today son
I'd say goodbye to your mother this is
what God wants me to do it he didn't do
that
notice what he says my son God will
provide for himself a lamb for the burnt
offering and when he put Isaac on the
altar and angel told him not to go
through with it don't you touch him
don't you touch a hair on that boy and
do anything to him now God knows that
you won't withhold anything from him
when he looked up he saw a ram in the
thicket and he went over and he
sacrificed that Ram he named that place
the Lord will provide touch a neighbor
and tell him the Lord will provide it's
all right
touch a neighbor tell him the Lord will
provide
that's the message that we need to hear
today that no matter what your
circumstance is God will provide even if
God is asking you to do the hard thing
to trust him in a way that you don't
want to you need to say to yourself God
will provide all things work together
for them who love the Lord and to those
who are called according to his purpose
your implicit question might be why did
God have Abraham go through all of this
he was testing him don't you remember
when Jesus was tested for forty days for
forty nights and you remember what Satan
did he left him for an opportune time he
was coming back my friends this story of
Abraham being willing to sacrifice his
only son whom he loved foreshadows how
God the Father will provide his own son
as a sacrifice for the sins of the world
Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away
the sins of the world
let us pray most gracious God we thank
you for growing us up from maturing us
in the faith for helping us to trust you
even in greater ways and as sherry said
that whatever we need you provide for us
so now Lord we ask that you would have
your way in this church in this service
we ask that your will will be done
father
know what folks have come in with but
you do but I want them to leave today
realizing that you can and will provide
all that we stand in need of amen
weeks ago I was leaving church and and I
was just thinking to go home and to
relax and God said I want you to preach
on forgiveness so I just wrote it down
but when I got home he continued to
speak and I said the Lord I don't want
to preach the same stuff I've preached
before you know when Peter talks about
how many times are you supposed to
forgive seven times seven and you know
that that story you know the scripture
and then God gave me this passage
Ephesians and I've never preached on
this passage so somebody ought to say
good luck or god bless but whenever I'm
crafting a sermon or working on it one
of the things that's always helpful is
to create an outline two to go verse by
verse and I can really get an impact of
the meaning but I want to share my
outline with you
verse 25 put off falsehood and speak
truth to your neighbor
verse 26 a and your anger do not sin 26
B do not let the Sun go down upon your
anger verse 27 do not give the devil a
foothold 28 anyone who steals stop so
that you can be a strong witness of
God's power
verse 29 watch your tongue verse 31 get
rid of hatred bitterness malice and
slender verse 32 a be kind
tender-hearted
and compassionate to one another
32b forgive each other just as Christ
want to say it again follow God's
example and then verse 2 walk in the way
of love just as Christ loved so as I
looked at this pericope of texts the
thing that stood out for me is the
radical solution to all of this is
forgiveness forgiveness is that thing in
my life that I've had to learn over and
over and over again that have had to
apply to my own life
over and over and over again child
swindle reports about a seminary student
in Chicago who faced the test on
forgiveness he was looking for a job and
although he would have preferred a job
in ministry the only job that he could
find was driving a bus on Chicago's
South Side I think you get a picture as
soon as I said Southside but one day a
gang of tough teens got on his bus
without paying this went on for a few
days and he was angry about he was
annoyed about it didn't know quite what
to do and one day as he pulled up to
this corner he noticed a police officer
there he stopped the bus he got off he
told the police would happen the police
officer came on the bus and he made
those teens pay and then he got off the
bus and as soon as the police officer
got off the bus and they were on their
way these young boys jumped him
they stole from him they beat him pretty
bad he pressed charges they went to
court and as he was looking at these
young man he thought about how lost they
were how much in need of God's love they
stood in need of and just as the judge
gave sentence he stood up and he says
judge I want to stand their sentences
for each one of them what a weird
request the judge says why he says
because I forgive them
I'll stand their sentences could you
imagine the look on these young boys
faces could you imagine the look of the
attorneys folks in the courtroom of
course his request was denied but let me
tell you what this seminary student did
he went to the jail and he began to
minister to them and Chuck Swindoll says
and many of them gave their lives to the
Lord I'm talking about forgiveness today
and his book Lee the last year's
chaubey's flood reports that after the
Civil War robert e lee visit a Kentucky
woman who was upset over a tree that was
destroyed in her yard
there she bitterly cried its limbs and
his trunk have been destroyed by federal
artillery she looked at Lee hoping that
he too would condemn the north or at
least sympathize with her loss but after
a brief silence Lee said cut it down my
dear madam and forget it
it is better
to forgive the injustice of the past
then allow them to remain or to let
bitterness take route to the rest of
your life
let it go talking about forgiveness you
know when I was young I thought that not
to forgive somebody it meant that I had
the power anybody thought like that that
you would say to yourself I'm not going
to forgive that person somehow you had
power doesn't work that way what I
learned later it's not to forgive I gave
the other person the power do you know
that the people that you're angry with
are going about their lives as normal
hello
they're not even worried that you were
upset they are going about their lives
as normal
I'm talking about forgiveness today
there was a Spanish father and a son who
had been in stranged the son ran away
and the father set out to find him he
searched for months to no avail finally
in the last desperate attempt the father
put an ad in the Madrid newspaper and
this is how the ad read dear Paco meet
me in front of the newspaper office at
noon on Saturday all is forgiven I love
you your father on Saturday 800 Paco's
showed up looking for forgiveness from
their fathers isn't it amazing what
forgiveness can do we all need it we all
stand in need of forgiveness but let me
tell you what happens when we don't
forgive
it's like blockage it blocks our flow of
blessings it blocks God's ability to use
us in a great
because we won't forget I don't know
about you but when I read the scripture
it says that if I have an art against my
brother or my sister that I'm supposed
to go Andrey council myself to them
before I bring my offering to God
so if model of relationship is not right
with you then my relationship can't be
right with him how many of you listen to
what I'm saying Mahatma Gandhi says that
the weak could never forgive forgiveness
is an attribute of the strong CS Lewis
put it like this to be a Christian means
to forgive the inexcusable because God
has forgiven the inexcusable in you and
me I want to challenge your thinking
with the thought forgiveness and I want
to add its the necessity for change life
forgiveness you want to change your life
you want your life to be better you want
God's blessings to flow in your life
then we have to forgive are you with me
I got one good amen I'll take it though
[Laughter]
verse 24 through 25 of this chapter in
Ephesians says that we ought to put away
the old life it says put away falsehoods
therefore if anyone is in Christ he's a
new creation old things have passed away
behold all things have become new so
here's my rhetorical question I don't
want you to answer it
are you a new creation
in Christ have the old things passed
away are we still doing the same old
things that we've always done it's a
rhetorical question that only we can
answer I hope today that I'm not the
same that I was at 19 and doing the same
things that I did when I was 19 years
old right now and I'm bringing age y'all
caught it and we should be growing up
growing in grace growing and God not
just getting older but growing in grace
then verse 26 says be angry and do not
send that's hard isn't it being angry
and not sinning you mean I can't tell
them off no you can't tell them off you
meaning after three strikes they're not
out no they're not out because what
happens when we say you got three
strikes and you're out basically what
we're saying is God don't worry about it
I got this one stand aside I can handle
this one and we go in ready for the
fighting how many of you know it never
works out because after you get out of
jail then no I'm just teasing but notice
what it says if you're angry do not sin
anger is normal but if you let it just
sit it can lead us to sin notice what
the scripture says do not let the Sun go
down upon your anger we're not supposed
to sit with it for any long period of
time because it will lead us to sin
listen to what
scripture says in Genesis chapter 4
verses 6 to 7 years God is talking to
Cain why are you angry and why has your
countenance fallen if you do well will
you not be accepted but if you do not
well sin lies at the door and its desire
is for you but you should rule over it
the essence of God's approach was simply
this Cain your anger conveys your lack
of accepting responsibility you're
sitting there you're getting angry
you're angry with me and you're angry
with Abel take responsibility for what
you've done and if you do the right
thing then the right things will happen
for you in other words God is saying to
two Cain is you have the power to make a
good choice a right choice what are you
going to do with your power it's a
question that's left for us we have the
ability to make a choice today to stay
angry to sit with our anger to stew with
our anger to pay people back to get them
back revenge or we can pray and ask God
to help us in the midst of our anger the
scripture is saying that we ought to
limit the anger in our lives it's a
threat to our spiritual growth
don't sit with anger for any length of
time don't let the Sun go down upon your
anger I know I've done it anybody else
and then verse 29 says speak truth and
love believers are to speak only what is
useful for the building up as there is
need so that our words may give grace to
those who hear it we are exhorted to be
kind and generous tender-hearted
compassionate and forgiving of one
another whenever our work with a couple
to marry them and whenever there's an
opportunity for me to preside at the
wedding I'm going to share a parson ISM
with you that I'll share with them
forgiveness is giving up your right to
hurt back forgiveness builds the bridge
back to the heart forgiveness frees both
of you to give in to receive love to
give and to receive love forgiveness is
one of the highest forms of grace it can
be beautiful it can be poetic and poetry
in motion it's one of the most elegant
gifts you will ever lay at the feet of
another believers are to speak only what
is useful for the building up for those
who need to hear word of grace we're
exhorted to be kind and generous
tender-hearted compassionate and
forgiving of one another and then I like
five
verses 1 & 2 there's a call to imitate
Christ to imitate the life of Christ
here Jesus is on the cross and he says
Father forgive them for they know not
what they do and his darkest hour Peter
denied him and yet after the
resurrection he wanted to restore Peter
letting him know that he was forgiven
Thomas doubted him after spending three
years with them doubted him and after
resurrection he says if you need to
touch my hands touch him you need to
touch my side go ahead and touch it
letting him know that all is forgiven I
was looking at the story of Elijah and
Elisha and they knew that his time was
was about to end in Elijah says to
Elisha
what can I do for you and Elisha says
give me a double portion of your spirit
and then he was caught up in a whirlwind
chariot of fire and Elisha took his coat
and he smacked the water and the water
parted and he walked on dry land he's he
did many miracles just like Elijah but
the Apostle Paul in this text is saying
that we ought to imitate Christ
duplicate what he did replicate it
emulate what Jesus did that's the life
that we ought to live he forgave
it's one of the hardest things that
we'll have to do is forgive and maybe
some of you saying I'm not ready to
forgive kind of see your card for a
second too often people say to me Reb
you preached on forgiveness you talked
about forgiveness but I don't really
know how to do that so I put a card in
your bulletin and I want to start with
the forgiveness letter so take a look at
that I'm going to say to you that I'm
growing in grace amen I haven't arrived
I'm so glad that God is not done with me
hello but forgiveness is a process at
times the people that have had horrific
things happen to them are able to
forgive I'm not sure that they've gone
through a process but I think that
forgiveness is a prized process and so
the first one is I'm angry because and
you write it down talk about the offense
why you're angry about it what saddened
you about this offense and if there are
any fears about it write it down and I
like number five what I need is this
what I want from you is this now you're
not going to do this today you're going
to do this when you get home in your own
time maybe there's somebody in your
family that's dealing with on an
unforgiving spirit and you can share
this with them this is what the
counselors share with me this is what I
share with other people this is what I'm
sharing with you today
and I really like number six number six
says I forgive but notice what it says I
would like to forgive some of you might
not be ready but you can write down
I would like to forgive
maybe you need to somebody needs to
forgive you and you can do a response
letter to them this is good stuff this
is real stuff this is hard stuff being a
Christian is not easy amen but just like
God was talking to Cain and he says Cain
you can make a responsible choice today
we can make a responsible choice and we
can choose to forgive when we forgive
we're more like God when we forgive
could you imagine Jesus homeboys excuse
my French the night Imran scattered and
yet he forgave on the cross to the very
people who put them there Father forgive
them for they know not what they do what
I'm saying to you is forgiveness is not
easy but it is the right thing to do
amen
let us pray
an adaptation of the lectionary reading
from Genesis chapter 1 to Genesis verse
4 the creation by James Weldon Johnson
and God stepped out on space and he
looked around and said I'm lonely I'll
make me a world and as far as the eye of
God could see darkness covered
everything blacker than a hundred
Midnight's down in the cypress swamp
then God smiled and light broke and the
darkness rolled up on one side and the
light
stood shining on the other and God said
that's good then God reached out and
took the light in his hands and God
rolled the light around in his hands
until he made the Sun and he set that
Sun of blazing in the heavens
and the light that was left from the Sun
he said it among the blazing heavens and
the light that was left from making the
Sun God gathered it up in a shining ball
and flew it into the darkness spangling
the night with the moon and stars then
down between the darkness and the light
he hurled the world and God said that's
good then God Himself stepped down and
the Sun was on his right hand and the
moon was on his left hand the stars
clustered about his head and the earth
under his feet and God walked and where
he trod his footsteps
hallowed the valleys out and bulged the
mountains up then he stopped and looked
and saw that the earth was hot and
barren so God stepped over the edge of
the world and he spelled out the seven
seas and he patted his eyes and the
lightnings flashed he clapped his hands
and the Thunder rode and the waters
above the earth came
down the cooling waters came down the
green grass sprouted and the little red
flowers blossom the pine tree pointed
his fingers to the sky and the oak
spread out his arms the lakes cuddled
down in the house of the ground and the
rivers ran down to the sea and God
smiled again and the rainbow appeared
and curled itself around his shoulder
then God raised his arm and waved his
hand over the sea and over the land and
he said break the earth bring forth and
quicker then God could drop his hands
fishes and fowls and beasts and birds
swamp the rivers and the seas roamed the
forest and the woods and split the air
with their wings and God said that's
good then
daaad walked around and looked around on
oh that he had made he looked at his son
and he looked at his moon and he looked
at his little stars and he looked on his
world with all its living things and God
said I'm lonely still then God sat down
on the side of the hill where he could
think by a deep wide river he sat down
with his head in his hands God thought
and thought till he thought I'll make me
a man up from the bed of the river God
scooped the clay and by the bank of the
river he kneeled him down and there the
Great God Almighty who lit the Sun and
fixed it in the sky who find the stars
to the most far corner of the night who
rounded the earth in the middle of his
head this great God like a mother
bending over her baby kneeled down in
the dust toiling over a lump of clay
till he shaped it in his own image van
into it he blew the breath of life and
man became a living soul amen amen
the Word of God for the people of God
let's give our hand
[Applause]
let us pray Lord I'm a sinner saved by
your grace I'm grateful but I know all
you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hi this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
God was approached by a scientists who
said we don't need God anymore hey God
are you up there
God said yes I'm up here God we don't
need you anymore
we can clone people we can do transplant
organs we can do all sorts of things
that was once considered miraculous God
said you don't need me huh no we don't
need you anymore
well how about we put your theory to a
test God says why don't we have a
competition to see who can make a human
being say a male human being the
scientist says no problem
so God declared that they should do it
but God said let's do it kind of like I
did it the first time when I made Adam
the first man the scientist said
no problem God says well I'll let you go
first and the man went down to scoop
some dirt and God said whoa whoa whoa
wait a minute you got to get your own
dirt God created everything amen
God created everything I'm hoping that
by the end of this sermon that you will
just be thrilled on the inside of how
good our God is how majestic our God is
and that he had us in mind when he
created I shared earlier that in Hebrew
thought there are two words that the
Hebrews would never get confused and
those two words are make and create
Hebrew people would never say that they
could create anything's the Hebrew word
is bra for create only God can bra the
Hebrews would say only God can create he
creates out of nothing
now man can asad that's the Hebrew word
for to make man can make man can asad
but only God can bara and as I was
thinking about this I said isn't it good
that we should know our place that God
is sovereign only God has independent
autonomous and self-governing it's good
to know your place sometimes amen and I
was reminded of the story of Job when
when job wanted to confront God and God
had to put job in his place it's good to
know our place but let me just share
just a little bit of that with you job
38 it goes like this God answers job
from the eye of a violent storm and he
says why do you confuse the issue why do
you talk without knowing what you're
talking about
pull yourself together job up on your
feet stand tall I've got some questions
for you
and I want some straight answers how
many of you I don't know about you but I
know I wouldn't want to be in jobs place
right now talking to God where were you
when I created the earth tell me since
you know so much who decided on its
sides certainly you know that who came
up with the blueprints in the
measurements how has his foundation been
poured and who set the cornerstone while
the Morningstar singing chorus and the
angels shouted and praised and who took
charge of the ocean when it gushed forth
like a baby from its mother's womb that
was me I wrapped it in a soft cloud and
tucked it in safely at night when I made
a playpen for it a strong playpen so
that it couldn't run loose and God said
you stay here this is your place your
wild tantrums are confined to this place
have you ever ordered the morning to get
up or told the dawn to go to work where
were you now I could go on because I
love this but I would be into another
sermon but job answers God at the end of
this dialogue and job says I'm ready to
shut up and listen
job says I'm speechless
and all words fail me I should have
never opened my mouth I've talked too
much way too much I'm ready to shut up
and to listen my friends God is
sovereign only God is independent
autonomous and self-governing it pays to
know who we're talking to sometimes
the earth I love the children's message
talking about the earth but the earth is
God's canvas
scripture says in the beginning God
created the heavens in the earth and the
earth was formed and voiceless in other
words the earth was God's great canvas
God is the supreme artist God is the
consummate painter God is the absolute
ultimate visionary God is uncritically
the greatest perfectionist ever only God
can borrow and man kennesaw God's
creation tells us that the world is not
a product of chance or by some random
forming of molecules let us do away with
this notion that the creation of the
world happened accidentally millions of
years ago
in contrast Genesis tells us that
creation has a starting point it has a
purpose and that purpose points to the
greatest personality ever the creator of
the world Genesis tells us that creation
began with God and not with some dumb
luck or windfall or
some cosmic roll of the dice but God
created out of love because God is love
amen
let me tell you how powerful how awesome
our God is he created by the power of
his word have you to walk in my house
every room I walk into I turn a light
switch on you can follow me because I'm
not going to be in the dark I'm going to
cut that light on and my wife is right
behind me and she's turning the lights
out as I walk in anybody else like that
you got to have light when you walk into
the room right I told my wife I'm not a
bad I got I got to have some light but
our God doesn't need to turn on a light
switch our God says let there be light
and there was a lie and there was like
eight times there was nothing and then
God spoke and then there was something
now I don't know about you and some of
y'all may not know this song but it says
he's a bad man but you Yellin anyway but
it's talking about how great God is that
God is so awesome that he can just
create he created the light God created
day he created night he created the Sun
and the moon and water and dry lands and
I noticed that light comes before the
Sun in the moon this is show that God is
light he's the personification of light
and then God creates humanity let me
read a little bit of that for you in
verse 26 there's a change in the way
that things are worded then God says let
us make man in our own image who is God
talking about let us make man in our own
image he's talking about the son you'll
remember and John 1 in the beginning was
the word and the Word was with God and
the Word was God in the beginning all
things were created not one thing was
made without him that's what the
scripture is talking about in Genesis
let us make man in our own image after
our likeness and let them have dominion
over the fish and over the sea and over
the birds and of heaven and over the
livestock and and over all the earth
over every creeping things that creeps
on the earth so God created man in his
own image and then the image God created
him male and female he created them and
God blessed them told them to multiply
and fill the earth and subdue it God had
us in mind
very very beginning he made creation and
it says that we are fearfully and
wonderfully made how many of you know
that to be true scripture says that
before your mom and dad ever got
together before my mom and dad ever got
together and gave each other that look
that God had us in mind he says before
we were created before we were in our
mother's womb he knew us that means that
we were on God's mind before anything
ever came together God is an awesome God
and the way that he creator's he that
we're fearfully and wonderfully made
some of us are tall and some of us are
short some of us are wide and some of us
are narrow some of us have thick hair
and some of us have thin here and some
of us don't have any hair and don't you
start laughing
but like snowflakes we're all unique
fearfully and wonderfully created by the
Masters hand many today will pay great
prices to go to great lengths to look
different in that interesting that God
made us just as we should be but we'll
do everything in our power to to change
it some parts of the body that are too
big we will pay somebody to make it
smaller some parts of the body that are
too small will pay somebody to enlarge
them there creams to grow hair there
creams to remove here there hair pieces
hair plugs hair transplant plants and
then I found this one to be interesting
hair spray hair that you can spray in a
can
I'm not going I'm sorry I'm just not
going there their nips and toxin and
their injections to tighten things up I
went to Google and I looked up how much
money do we spend on cosmetics Americans
spend 16 billion dollars on cosmetic
surgery and non-surgical procedures such
as Botox that's for 2017 16 billion
dollars but here's what I want you to
know you are fearfully and wonderfully
made you are made in the image and the
likeness of our God you are pleasing to
God when he created us he said and
that's good but do we feel that do we
know that do we even like ourselves I
don't know about you but when I was a
teenager I didn't like myself I didn't
love myself and I had to grow into that
but today I love myself because I
realize that I'm fearfully and
wonderfully made you can look around
that nature and experience God and just
have you ever been on a lake and you see
the sun shining through a cloud right
there on the lake anybody have you ever
gone out and all of a sudden the Sun
just shine on your face and you felt the
cool breeze nice oh oh that feels so
good
anybody you ever see a beautiful animal
and say to yourself man God is an
awesome God God is the supreme artists
God is the consummate painter God is the
absolute ultimate visionary he is the
perfectionist
Reverend Josh Foster said it this way
the same spirit who created the heaven
in the earth is the same God who wants
to create something new and each one of
us a new heart a new attitude a new
point of view a renewed relationship
with him
new hope God wants to bring healing
where there is brokenness order where
there is chaos hope where there is
despair love where there is bitterness
and faith where there is doubt the God
who spoke everything into existence
wants to do a new thing in you and in me
but the question is will we let him do
it Romans 12 says I beseech you
therefore brethren by the mercies of God
that ye present your body as a living
sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God
be not conformed to this world but be
transformed by the renewing of your mind
will you let God do that for you maybe
today is your day
maybe you've been holding on to
something and you say I'm not going to
forgive them they don't deserve my
forgiveness they didn't even ask for my
forgiveness I'm not going to give them
my forgiveness but maybe today you might
just let it go
give God a moment to getting in to do
this great work that God can do amen
maybe you've got family members you say
the phone works both ways they don't
call me I ain't calling out anybody ever
been there maybe the day you
pick up the phone and call them because
they need God's love amen
I know some of you are saying I know
he's coming close to me he's going to
say something to me your leadership
whether it's in school whether it's in
church you're needed maybe you've been
thinking about and says I don't know
because in that pastor call you they
want you there three times a week I just
can't do it maybe today you'll say yes
even though you've been desirous and
saying no because God is calling you to
step up and to do what he's called you
to do he's wired you with great
leadership why don't you offer it I
don't know what you're going through the
day but whatever it is the god of the
universe says I'm here with you I'm here
with you you know the beauty about God
is I don't go through anything alone he
promised to be with me he's promised to
be with us always he says I'll be with
you to the ends of the earth nothing
shall separate us from his great love
nothing not family not nakedness not
peril not sword no death nor life
nothing shall keep us away from the
great love that is in Christ Jesus isn't
that good isn't that good news today my
friends let us pray Lord I'm so
add that when you create it you had all
of us in mind that you made this world
so beautiful you filled it with
everything that we need it's good to
know that you are sovereign it's good to
know that only you are autonomous
independent self-governing and that you
can do anything but fail there's no
failure in you Father I pray for your
Holy Spirit to touch lives easier even
as I pray that your spirit might fall
upon us and grant us what we need maybe
by the power of your word that we might
experience real love real peace real joy
that the day we might leave this place
thinking about greater ways to serve you
because you have been an awesome God
fill our minds and our hearts with all
of your possibilities and we would be so
careful to give you the praise and now
let us pray that prayer that Jesus
taught his disciples our Father who are
in heaven hallowed be thy name thy
kingdom come thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven give us this day our
daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom and the power and
the glory
forever and ever
but I know that all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hide this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
mean that they might hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ name I pray amen
today is Pentecost one of the
celebrations of the Christian calendar
but we've taken a journey at aven't we
celebrated Christmas we celebrated the
the coming of baby Jesus into the world
the Messiah born of a virgin living in a
humble stable at Easter we remember the
death of Jesus on the cross celebrating
his resurrection Jesus bore the
punishment for all of our sins
resurrection God raised in Jesus from
the dead showing that the penalty for
disobedience had been paid for the world
and it was a way to reconcile all of us
to God and then we had ascension last
Sunday after Jesus rose from the dead he
presented himself alive to men women and
children for over 40 days over 500
witnesses witnessed Jesus after the
resurrection him being alive 40 days he
hung around and remember what he said to
his disciples that they were to go back
to Jerusalem and that they were to wait
for the Holy Spirit to come upon them
and now we have Pentecost at Penda
the disciples witnessed the birth of the
New Testament church in the coming of
the Holy Spirit to end well all
believers you know what was different is
if you go back in the Old Testament
sometimes God would allow the Holy
Spirit to to fall on a prophet and the
Prophet would prophesy and you know the
stories of Moses and Elijah and I can go
on but now it's different because not
only with the spirit fall but the spirit
now lives in us
it lives in the heart of every believer
so what I love about this text today is
it's saying to us that now that we have
the Holy Spirit then no more excuses
they meant
we can't give an excuse and say well I
can't do this I don't feel called we
can't do that the Holy Spirit has gifted
us and empowered us to do these great
works so your question might be well
what does the Holy Spirit do I'm so glad
you asked that question the Holy Spirit
has come to inspire us to continue to do
the great work of the Holy Spirit the
Holy Spirit comes to to be our helper to
help us until the last day the Holy
Spirit assists all believers in prayer
in making intercession for others to
also follow the will of God the Holy
Spirit and it's mighty powers fills
every believer with joy with peace and
with grace so that we might trust the
will of God for our lives that we might
be the hope that the world stands in
need of let me just summarize the day of
Pentecost on that day the decide
people's were gathered together and they
won the upper room being obedient I love
this story because Peter didn't go
fishing this day he stayed where he was
supposed to stay to wait for the Holy
Spirit and when the Holy Spirit came
something incredible happened they began
to speak in languages even unknown to
themselves and it said that the Spirit
was like tongues of fire above them
falling down on them now I know some of
you would say that's too much Holy
Spirit for me I would have left that
room and ran down the road and I get it
but this is what happened and what I
want you to understand today is that
this was the birth of the Christian
Church this is where it all began the
indwelling of the Holy Spirit it was
God's gift to the Christian community no
longer do we have to wait to hear what a
prophet would say to us but that Holy
Spirit that lives inside of us would
teach us how to follow all that Jesus
commanded listen to the words in acts 2
verses 1 to 4 on that day all the
believers were meeting together in one
place and suddenly there was a sound
from heaven like the roaring of a mighty
wind storm and it filled a house where
they were sitting
then what looked like flames or tongues
of fire appeared and settled on each of
them and everyone present was filled
with the holy spirit that's what I love
about this everyone who was present
nobody was excluded everyone
present received this gift of the Holy
Spirit Pentecost is when the church was
birth as the Holy Spirit filled the
first followers with purpose with power
with ability and it transformed them
from the ordinary to the extraordinary
it was like a before and an after I love
when you just go to Google and you you
press in before and after and it brought
up an image of somebody losing weight
you need you ever seen that where the
person is like 400 pounds and then they
come down to like 160 pounds and you go
wow now that's a real before and that's
a real after but what I want us to think
about today is what we were like before
we gave our lives to the Lord and what
we were like after my brother Randy is
now with the Lord but I prayed and I
asked Randy if I could share his before
and his after with us today and I felt
like his spirit released me to do that
my brother Randy is six years younger
than I am and Randy let me just say was
the character probably had more than
nine lives you know a cat has nine lives
I think Randy had more lives than a cat
he was a magnet to drama trauma and
trouble with the capital t he was a sort
of daredevil he made it through high
school but he got caught up in the
streets he got caught up with some of
the wrong people he started doing things
that he need not do he got into the
whole drug scene and any parent who has
a child that goes through this it broke
my mother's heart
and she would literally go out there get
him off the street try to clean him up
in a short time he would go right back
to what he was doing in and out of jail
but he went to jail and this time it
looked like this was going to be it but
I know that sounds bad but I was
grateful that he went to jail because he
was so lost in the drug scene that I
thought it would take his life in jail
was that quiet place where God can speak
somebody ought to say Amen but there was
a pastor of a Baptist Church who took
this interest in my my brother and he
would go to the jail and he would mentor
him and witness to him and my brother
gave his life to the Lord
and right after he gave his life to the
Lord he went to court and the judge
court ordered him to an 18-month rehab
it was the best thing he ever done
because before that any time he went to
a rehab he would just check himself out
after 30 days he had enough of anything
he would walk away but now he was caught
ordered 18-month program but this pastor
incredible guy continued to visit my
brother in this 18-month program
continue to mentor him and when my
brother got out of jail and he went
through this 18-month program he was set
free and he and this pastor became
friends and let me talk to you about his
after I talked about his before but
after God came into his life he was so
grateful for his salvation that he just
wanted to give back this church had well
over
2,500 maybe 3,000 members so there was a
couple hundred youth and my brother
would go and talk to the roughest and he
helped many I didn't know this but the
pastor the day of my brother's funeral I
got to the to the church early I just
wanted to spend some time with my
brother and he said are you Derek and I
said yes he said can we come in my
office and talk so he told me about
visiting him in jail he told me about
being a part of the rehab but he said
what I want you to know is that your
brother was a servant leader in our
church
I sent my brother brandy he said yeah he
said your brother would buff the church
floors and we had a janitor I told him
he didn't need to do that but he said he
needed to do it and he had knock on my
door and he come in and check on me and
see if I needed anything and he see a
little bit of trash from my trashcan and
he would empty the trash and then there
were days that he would go through and
empty all the trash cans in the church
and then wash them out there was times
he would cook for the youth your brother
loved to cook and we loved his pancakes
he can make some good pancakes he said
he said but Randy was a servant leader
he reached people I could never reach
and I just wanted you to know that and I
shared that with you so that you would
see Randy's before and see Randy's after
Randy died because his body could not
take him into the next phase of life he
had abused his body so badly with the
drugs and even though he had gotten
himself together and even though he was
working and even though he had gotten
married and was doing well he had health
problems so today
would you help me to celebrate my
brother for allowing us to share his
story your question might be why did I
share his before and his after with you
when you look at the disciples here they
were just fishermen wooden Airy people
just folks who worked and had worries
and anxieties and fears tax collectors
just ordinary people but now the Holy
Spirit is coming and they're going to be
extraordinary people remember Jesus last
words before his ascension Jesus says
you will receive power when the Holy
Spirit comes upon you and you will be my
witnesses telling people about about me
everywhere in Jerusalem throughout Judea
and through Samaritan to all the ends of
the earth the Holy Spirit gave them
power to be extraordinary I looked up
the Greek word and the Greek word for
power is Dunamis can you say Dunamis
we're not going to be afraid of that
word but it's used 120 times in the New
Testament it's a word that refers to not
only power but strength in ability
Dunamis is not just any power but it's
miraculous power or marvelous works
Dunamis can be referred to as moral
power or the excellence of the soul
Dunamis is the root word in English
which is dynamite dynamo and dynamic in
my painting a picture for you are you
getting what I'm talking about because
this is what the Holy Spirit has come to
do within us is to help us to become
dynamite in the Lord how many of you
know that God doesn't Drive a parked car
anybody but the Spirit is dynamic it's
fluent and it wants to do great things
in us no more excuses we can't say Lord
I'm afraid he says I've sent the Holy
Spirit
no more can we say Lord I'm I'm not the
right person use somebody else he says
I've sent the spirit and I put it in you
Jim no more can we say Lord well maybe
somebody else would be good at that God
is saying no I've called you and I've
given you my spirit no more excuses
somebody say no more excuses do you
believe it no more excuses on the day of
Pentecost the disciples were filled with
power
dynamite power to become dynamic God
wanted to take the ordinary and make
them extraordinary if God isn't calling
us to do something he's also going to
equipped us amen he's not going to just
send us out there on our own we have the
Holy Spirit to indwell us our prayer
lives ought to be different because we
have the Holy Spirit you ever been tired
and you you go down to pray and when you
finish praying you've been refreshed to
anybody know what I'm talking about you
felt like you didn't have enough
strength to do what was there you felt
like you couldn't go through anymore you
feel like you couldn't take anymore but
you prayed and somehow God refreshes you
God renews you that's the Holy Spirit
that says don't quit don't give up hang
in there
give it one more day I'm right there
with you and the Holy Spirit becomes
like a buttress for us a support it says
don't give up don't worry we've been may
endure for a night but joy comes in the
morning I'm with you I'll give you the
strength you need to get through this oh
my friends the Holy Spirit is a gift a
free gift that indwells us that
transforms us individually and
collectively but you know what makes us
nervous about the Holy Spirit what makes
us nervous about the Holy Spirit it's
unpredictable
stable sometimes it's not safe you see
the Holy Spirit is the game changer the
Holy Spirit it shatters the status quo
the Holy Spirit uses us but it takes us
out of our place of complacency gives
our comfort zone or squeeze and we don't
like that the Holy Spirit lifts us up to
new heights to spiritual fullness and
blessings it is the Holy Spirit that
comes into our church and allows us to
spread the good news of God of love of
grace and all places for all people it
is the spiritual points not to itself
but to Christ it's the spirit that
allows us not to point to ourselves but
to Christ it is this spirit which makes
the church the body of Christ the most
unique organization on the face of the
earth
the power of the Holy Spirit was brought
into the world over 2,000 years ago as a
free gift to indwell
our lives I don't know about you but I'm
I'm glad about it and it's time for us
to open up to the mind-blowing
heartwarming life-changing power of the
Holy Spirit the power of God can invade
the body inflate the mind swell the soul
and lift our spirits to places we have
never imagined the power and the
presence of the Spirit comes to disturb
to delight to deliver to lift us up when
God sends forth the spirit the whole
face of the earth is renewed when God
sends forth its spirit Chaos's changes
into creation the Red Sea opens up to a
highway of freedom for God's people when
God sends forth his spirit
a young woman said yes and Jesus was
born in life was never the same again
when God sends forth its spirit amazing
things can happen do you believe it do
you believe that when God sends forth
the spirit amazing things can happen
barriers are broken communities are
formed unity is established diseases are
cured
addictions are broken cities are renewed
races are reconciled when God sends
forth his spirit amazing things can
happen
hope is established people are forever
bless the church happens for those who
are lost the least the lost and
forgotten can find a place today the
Spirit of God is present in our lives as
present in this church is present in you
and I and the question is are you ready
only two people went to Sunday school
are you ready we got to be ready for
what God's ready to do in us with us and
through us when the Holy Spirit comes
we'll stop crying about things we can't
fix and we'll just trust God for it
we'll trust the leading in the guidance
of the Holy Spirit to do a great work I
don't know what you're up against today
and maybe some of you are up against a
lot it could be your health it can be
your finances it can be your family
whatever it is I need you to trust him
trust God that's our best bet amen
that's our hope is the trust God don't
trust this preacher even though you hear
me preach and go back and look at the
word for yourself go back and read the
scripture for yourself don't let me just
tell it to you I could tell you anything
right you got to believe in me man I'm
just teasing but it's important that you
do that that you go back and look at the
word the word was there before I got
here I didn't write it
but I trust God's Word amen my friend
when we think about our lives our before
and our after and to see what God can do
what that Holy Spirit can do in our
lives
it took my brother to go to jail to find
salvation I don't care where you find it
but he found it and it was in that 18
month program that God continued to
speak peace and power into his life my
brother learned about a grace he had
never known he learned about a love that
he had never known and because of that
he wanted to change other lives he
talked the kids who on the brink of
going to jail he talked to some of the
roughest kids and because he was rough
and tough himself he was able to make a
difference and many gave their lives to
the Lord my friends with the last breath
of my life that's what I want to do I
want to encourage God's people I want to
empower God's people I want them to know
about the power that lives inside of
them that we can do all things through
Christ that lives in us my friends I
thank God every day for salvation for
the gift of grace would you take the
hand of the person next to us and we're
going to pray together and the reason
why we do this we never know what the
person next to us is going through and
they can be going through a whole lot so
let us pray most gracious God you are
indeed an awesome God you give us power
purpose
ability you've come to comfort our
hearts to let us know that we are never
alone
and you promise to be with us always
even unto the ends of the age we thank
you for being a faithful God in our
lives that everything that we go through
you care about the one hour that we
spend on Sunday morning but how we live
our lives at home and how we live at
work in school and how we have fun you
care about every aspect of our lives the
Holy Spirit has come to teach us how to
live for you and so Lord we're ready
we're ready for you to do a dynamic work
in this church in this community and our
lives individually and collectively and
all of God's people said amen
would you open up your hymnals to
on the book of Acts chapter 16 verses 16
through 34 one day as we were going to
the place of Prayer we met a slave girl
who had a spirit of divination and
brought her owners a great deal of money
by fortune-telling while she followed
Paul and us she would cry out these men
are slaves of the Most High God who
proclaimed to you a way of salvation she
kept doing this for many days but Paul
very much annoyed turned and said to the
spirit I order you in the name of Jesus
Christ to come out of her and it came
out that very hour but when her owner
saw that their hope of making money was
gone
they seized Paul and Silas and dragged
them into the marketplace before the
authorities when they had brought food
for us as Romans to adopt or observe the
crowd joined in attacking them and the
magistrates had them stripped of their
clothing and ordered them to be beaten
with rods after they had given them a
severe flogging they threw them into
prison and ordered the jailer to keep
them securely following these
instructions he put them in the
innermost cell and fastened their feet
in the stocks about midnight Paul and
Silas were praying and singing hymns to
God and the prisoners were listening to
them suddenly there was an earthquake so
violent that the foundations of the
prison were shaken and immediately all
the doors were open and everyone's
changed were unfastened when the jailer
woke up and saw the prison doors wide
open he drew his sword and was about to
kill himself since he supposed
that the prisoners had escaped but Paul
shouted in a loud voice do not harm
yourself for we are all here
the jailer called for lights and rushing
in he fell down trembling before Paul
and Silas then he brought them outside
and said sirs what must I do to be saved
they answered believe on the Lord Jesus
and you will be saved you and your
household they spoke the word of the
Lord to him and to all who were in his
house at the same hour of the night he
took them and washed their wounds then
he and his entire family were baptized
without delay he brought them up into
the house and set food before them and
he and his entire household rejoiced
that he had become a believer in God
this is the Word of God for the people
of God there we go alright I just want
to share a little bit about the song
that we're singing today and it's an old
traditional spiritual it's called guide
my feet Lord and you're gonna hear this
phrase quite often guide my feet Lord
while I run this race and one of the
things that I took away from the
spiritual retreat over the weekend was
that we all have a right race to run and
we can either do it with a lot of
luggage and extra baggage or we can
lighten that load and get rid of the
things that the Lord doesn't want us to
have so Hebrews 12 is the most perfect
passage that I could think of therefore
since we are surrounded by so great a
cloud of witnesses let us also lay aside
every weight and the same
sin that clings so closely let us run
with perseverance the race that is set
before us looking unto Jesus the Pioneer
and perfecter of our faith so pray that
you're encouraged this morning as we
sing
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
whether they was gonna bring it this
morning on your behalf
y'all brought it that was awesome let's
give them another hand that just I just
wanted to introduce to some of you
Robert Davis he's been my mentor for a
long time
when I went was in the Marine Corps
second Battalion six Marines one of the
first people I met was Robert Davis the
very first thing he asked me the day
that I met him whether I was running
from a call and I was running from a
call but I was really troubled that he
knew that I was running from a call and
he began to work with me and you always
had to have something to read around
Robert Davis the first thing he will ask
what are you reading how are you feeding
yourself and so that's where that path
started for me and he touched my life
and he's helped me to be where I am
today I will say to you by the grace of
God he's become my family and we talk
every single day and if there's a time
when I just get busy and I didn't call
him and it's not until evening when I
call him he'll say boy where you been
all day but you know how good that feels
to be acknowledged in that way I could
talk to you about his resume but we've
been putting it out before you you know
all of those things his training is just
amazing and for him to continue to do
the work on himself this week and we had
a great retreat but the folks who helped
us to put it together have been folks
who've also been touched by Robert by
his
to help us to get to where we are trying
to go to and of course we want to all
expire to be like Jesus but I've been
following the way that he leads people
and the way that he encourages people
and I like to say that I'm an encourage
largely due to him so without further
ado let's give him a Providence welcome
[Applause]
it's a joy to be in the great state of
Virginia it's my home and while I was
here Derek took me to get another birth
certificate I am in the last week I was
at work one day and somebody said
Darrell's daughter fell in a swimming
pool and they're taking her to the
hospital now she fell in the swimming
pool I guess there was nobody around
she's about ten years old and we heard
that I don't know how long she was under
that water but I guess if you ended up
water for a certain time you could have
brain damage
so we started praying for I know later
on that night they started praying for
and the next day this is what we heard
she came out of it she woke up she
opened her eyes and said I was sitting
on Jesus knee and he told me I was going
back to my family I believe
you know miracles do happen with all of
us our lives are change the greatest
miracle that can ever take place is the
life that Jesus changes the most
important decision that we will ever
make is what we do with Jesus
you see I love to tell a story because
the greatest thing the best thing that
has ever happened in my life was when I
was 19 years old and invited Jesus
Christ into my life as my savior and
Lord now the text that that Isaac read
about Paul and Silas praying and singing
at midnight eventually they touched the
life of a jailer who eventually was
thinking about killing himself before
Paul and Silas says we're still here do
no harm to yourself then the scripture
says the jailer said these words
honorable masters
what must we do to be saved and partly
Silas replied believe in the Lord Jesus
Christ and you will be saved and you in
your entire household that day
the jailer believed in Jesus now we're
not talking about an intellectual belief
because even the devil's believe in
Jesus but they're not changed
belief is a word that means commitment
trust
to the stand up I can ask you that sit
down but if I ask you to stand up and I
was on a verge of asking you to sit down
and if you had any questions or any
doubts about you sitting down that Pew
holding you up you won't sit down right
so believing in Jesus is believing
committing trusting in the fact that
when we sit in his mouth he's got he
could home what must I do to be safe
Paul and Silas replied believe on the
Lord Jesus Christ not only did he get
Jesus in his heart the scripture says
the jailer changed he washed their
wounds the scripture said everybody in
his household was immediately baptized
which is the thing once we accept Jesus
once we believed in him the next thing
we ought to do is to be baptized follow
his example Jesus got baptized didn't
even have to be baptized you know
Houston like then we don't think they
were change because he the jailer
brought Paul and Silas into their home
gave them a meal and the scripture says
he was overjoyed and everyone in his
household
come to believe in Jesus now see I love
the tilt story
because there was that day that I
believed in Jesus
how do I get there how do we get there
well for me you know my my dad was a
womanizer
the early good reach for me with my dad
my girlfriend
you know not very good hey my my dad
treated his family just like the dead
treated him my dad was very
[Music]
now my head died at the age of 32 when
my dad died I knew how to sell quality
of life changed for the bed my mother
Virginia my mom build her a brand-new
home got her a job working on at the
Naval Hospital where she later retired
from our life change but you know when I
got to mom pork I played things like
baseball I played football I played
football at Woodrow Wilson High School
you know my I was an all-state football
player my senior year in high school I
scored more touchdowns and points than
any football player in the state of
Virginia but when you recruited by every
major university in the United States
and you can't good thing but my husband
years my grandfather who was an
alcoholic who I couldn't stand most of
my life and proud of my feelings would
sell well I tell you what I had a lot of
hate towards him
[Music]
for me you know you know when you're a
kid you don't understand
Charlie Mike the guy you know it would
be years later we're gonna to drug and
alcohol facility did I realize that my
grandfather didn't want to be the person
that he was but the disease of
alcoholism that's what it does to people
and then at that time I could give
empathy but my grandfather did have a
heart but my Aunt Emma his sister was a
Christian later
every Christian a Jesus story would you
know kitchen you know you already knew
what was in there when I graduated from
high school my aunt gave me my first
Bible she worked in the school cafeteria
I'm sure she first started she started
at the bottom by the time to retire you
know she was in charge but we'd go to
her house and she would fix us
man she is tripping us out every time we
come here she always talked to us about
God you know I mean she was crazy you
know what I mean well you don't
understand you think crazy stuff like
that you don't really like you doing
crazy
you know so so my name yellow she always
witness to us humans told us at some
point in our life we got to decide what
we want to live for God or evil God you
know at some point you got to make a
decision
so these are things that I remember boss
missing don't give up cheering up you
don't know what sticking with people so
I got a fourth sky junior college you
know and I get there and I went before
Scott because of the benefit ecology but
you not expect that time for football we
went to the undefeated we went to the
national championship football scene I
got introduced to drugs marijuana pills
and you know what got me involved in
drugs peer pressure you know you go to
party
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
but Jesus - you wanna pay for your shit
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
she intervene she wanted to make sure
that this decision that I made invited
Jesus into my heart she wanted to make
sure whatever to drive back and within
today I'm gonna call in John Mizzou ask
me
so
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you know
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
and you know I've never said this in
public but when I look back now I
probably do realize that I probably
represented a father figure for him I
never looked at that many years later
but we would talk and he was one of my
labor
you know and we've stayed in touch all
these years and and my brothers and
sisters in Christ see I'd love to tell
this story because the greatest and best
thing that's ever happened in my life is
when I invited Jesus Christ into my life
and listened God knew what he was doing
God knew that I needed that experience
in that church because God knew that
years later I was gonna have an
opportunity to love people that didn't
look like me smell the first church I
was a member of I had people from all
raising the people and let me tell you
so when you go in the military and you
got a deal with witches Satanism and I
brought my Christian listen you got
those people because if you don't take
kind of know it
so my Christian friends
I don't know about you but all they say
this for my friends I'm looking forward
to the rapture I want to be raptured but
also tell some of our friends illustrate
the rapture but if I don't have that
privilege to get in rapture if I got to
die and uh someone on my finger song
when a my songs I'm probably gonna have
my feeling one day but if I have to go
natural way let me just say this here's
the question how many so God has given
us a marvelous privilege listen listen
God might want you to touch them Derek's
right who still not cannot over time
Lisa
not this not this and my Christian
friend I challenge you today the
greatest proof that greatness and you
know if they brought your life in the
court of law could you be convicted of
being a Christian
God wants us to have fruit he wants you
to bear fruit he will give you
opportunities just like Haiti install
themselves to be a blessing to other
people
[Music]
laughs
there's other Robert Davis's there's
other Derrick Parsons because other Tim
offers there were other Susan Chapman's
out there for you to share God's love
with the greatest proof the greatest
evidence that we're children of God is
our love for other people keep loving my
brothers and sisters
when we asked his congregation this
question how many of you've heard this
expression to die for to die for
anybody's heard that expression he says
he saw a menu one time and it
highlighted a dessert that was called
death by chocolate are any of you
interested it was called death by
chocolate it was so packed with
chocolate that it was described in this
way to die for and it seems like the
ultimate is when there's something so
wonderful so magnificent that you and I
say that is worth dying for we know that
we wouldn't die really die for a piece
of cake don't answer that question but
when we think about something worth
dying for we think about our true
sacrifice Romans five and eight says it
this way but God demonstrates his love
for us that while we were yet sinners
Christ died for us Jesus says I didn't
come to be served but I came to serve
and to give my life a ransom for many
there was a reading from Lawrence
Kushner entitled a stranger on the bus
a light snow was falling the streets
were crowded with people
it was Munich and Nazi Germany
susie was riding a bus from home from
work when the SS stormtroopers suddenly
stopped the coach and began examining
the identification papers of all
passengers most people a little annoyed
that they stopped the bus
but some were terrified Jews were being
taken off the bus and to a truck around
the corner Suzi watched from her seat in
the back of the bus as the soldiers
systematically worked their way down the
aisle she began to tremble tears
streaming down her face and when the man
sitting next to her notice that she was
crying he politely asked her why and she
whispered I don't have the papers that
you have I'm a Jew and they're going to
take me off this bus and I'm scared the
man thought about it for a second then
he stood up and he exploded with disgust
he began to raise his voice he cursed he
screamed at her you stupid woman he
roared I can't stand even being near you
one of the SS troopers asked why was he
yelling and the man shouted angrily my
wife has forgotten her papers again this
is the second time she's done this I'm
so sick of her and the soldier said calm
down but he was convinced by the drama
that Suzi was this man's wife he laughed
shook his head and they moved on it was
a selfless act of love a stranger on the
bus saved her life
Suzi didn't know the man's name she
never saw him again but he saved her
life Romans five and eight says but God
demonstrates his own love for us that
while we were sinners Christ died for us
even before we knew him even when we
didn't know
God has a plan for us amen even when we
don't understand the plan even we don't
when we don't know what God is up to God
has a plan for us there are some who are
saying why did Jesus have to come as a
little baby why didn't he come as an
adult God has a plan it's not your plan
it's God's plan why did Jesus have to
die such a brutal death it's not your
plan is God's plan why did he have to be
resurrected God has a plan for us we
don't need to understand everything we
just need to know that he's in charge
and God is sovereign can we let God be
God by himself today or we still trying
to tell god what to do anybody today is
ascension Sunday it refers to the bodily
departure of Jesus from Earth and has
returned to the right hand of God the
Father Almighty where he rules the
cosmos as king and Lord following the 40
days after his resurrection and which he
seemed to appear regularly to his
disciples but in the Ascension he's
lifted up right out of their sight as
the promise of the Spirit is would come
to empower us to live the life some
people are puzzled as to why Jesus
waited around for 40 days 40 days after
the resurrection but I say to you that
this period was no accident let's look
back Jesus endured 40 days and 40 nights
in the wilderness when he was being
tempted at the very beginning of his
ministry now the tables have turned
at this post ascension Jesus
triumphantly parades his victory over
death and over Satan and all of his work
and during this time the conquer of
death
displays his supremacy before his
faithful followers so that the
Scriptures might be fulfilled and that
they would understand that all that he
said to them was true but there's
another reason for this 40-day period
could you imagine if Jesus only had one
appearance I mean that could be left up
to questions I mean the skeptics would
have a field day with the fact that he
only appeared one time who was there how
many people soared but sticking around
for 40 days is kind of hard to dispute
the fact that he rose from the dead
ascension will always remain a mystery
to many of us because it takes on the
supernatural you know when we think of
power we think of of dynamite and and
watching dynamite blow a crater in the
ground and we go wow that's that's
that's powerful maybe you like me I like
to watch planes take off at the airport
and you just see them take off and and
just as they take off we go that's
powerful maybe some of you you like to
watch when when a space ship goes into
two space and as it takes off you go man
that's powerful but my friends Jesus
rose from the disciples sight without a
spacesuit a spaceship any assistance
from dynamite or any explosive he rose
from their sight now that's power so
sometimes when we look at things like
this and it's the supernatural we go
whoa what's happening here
but I think that it was ascension was
fitting to end his earthly ministry and
it's really really important listen to
the Scriptures John 6 verses 62 the 63
Jesus says to his disciples then what
have you see the Son of Man ascend to
where he was before the Spirit gives
life the flesh counts for nothing the
words that I've spoken to you they are
full of spirit and full of life
John 16 verses 5 and now but now I'm
going to him who sent me none of you
asked me where are you going but because
I've said these things to you sorrow has
filled your heart nevertheless I tell
you the truth it is to your advantage
that I go away for if I do not go away
the Advocate will not come to you but if
I go I will send him to you let me go
down to verse 10 I'm going to the Father
and you will no longer see me John 16
verse 28 I came from the father and I
came into the world and again I'm
leaving the world and I'm going to the
Father
so while Jesus was alive he prophesized
that he was going back to the Heavenly
Father to whom he had come from but I
want to read the actual event we we read
Luke but I want to read acts verses 1
through 9 in your hearing and when he
had spoken these things while they
beheld him he was taken up and a
I received him out of their sight
and while they looked up steadfastly
toward heaven and as he went up behold
two men stood by them in white apparel
which also said Ye men of Galilee why
stand here gazing into the heaven this
same Jesus which has taken up for you
into heaven shall so come in like manner
just as you've seen him go into heaven
listen the verbs are very important
lifted up raised him has been taken up
Jesus movement into heaven was gradual
visible and bodily no hocus-pocus this
wasn't some trick ascension is a
historical event where prophecy was
fulfilled I know there some of you are
saying prophecy is good but what does
that have to do with me I hear you I say
to you it has everything to do with you
listen to John 14 verses 1 through 4 do
not let your hearts be troubled he
believed in God believe also in me in my
father's house are many dwelling places
if it were not so I would have told you
I go to prepare a place for you so that
where I am ye may be also you know the
way to the place where I'm going I will
not leave you often it has everything to
do with you and I dissension is a
historical fact
I like how dr. Tony Evans says it's he
says you see because Jesus went
somewhere you and I have somewhere to go
amen where I am
you will be with me also so when we come
to the end of this life and they throw
dirt on the casket that's not it for you
and I will be with him in paradise
we'll live eternally and that's what
heaven is is going into eternity with a
God who loves us I believe hell is being
separated from a God who loves us it has
everything to do with us ever
resurrection is true then extension is
true if ascension is true then heaven is
true if heaven is true then it is true
for you and I that where he is
we will also be with him I don't know
about you but that gives me hope
it lets me know that he is sovereign
that God has a plan and that plan is to
be with us forever
it's to be in relationship with us
forever now you may not understand the
plan you may not even like the plan but
thanks be to God amen I'm so glad that
God can be God all by himself he doesn't
need my help anybody else what I love
about this text is it says that this
culminates Jesus work here now some of
you say why didn't he stay longer how
long
shouldn't have gone on at some point it
need to come to a close that his earthly
like that Jesus of Earth they needed to
to be an end to it so that he can be
Jesus Christ
in heaven amen where he can sit at the
right hand of God
advocating on our behalf what I love
about the text I'll just read in your
hearing
Jesus was blessing them this is the last
time he has already given his spirit
farewell speech to
his disciples and he's blessing them and
all of a sudden he's being raised right
in front of them it's like the father
couldn't wait for Jesus just to come
back and to to be at his side look
you've already been raised I've already
waited 40 more days come on home and
he's just raising them up right in front
of their sides and I imagine that
they're looking but notice what the
angel says to the disciples why do you
stand here looking gazing in the sky
you've got work to do in other words in
other words you are to be witnesses of
what he said to you and to go and do
that work not stargazers why are you
standing there looking in the sky with
nostalgia you ought to go out and and
extend the compassion that he's extended
to you to a lost world go and do what he
said you see at extension Jesus left the
here and now so that he can be
everywhere omnipresent he can be with
you when you pray and he can be with
your family in North Carolina and he can
be with your family and in Florida when
they pray he could hear everyone's
prayer simultaneously that's enough for
us to give God some praise Jesus left
standard time for eternal time somebody
ought to say amen he left the first
century to fulfill all centuries
somebody ought to say Amen we ought to
rejoice in the power in the purpose of
ascension ascension says his work is
complete it brought an end but my
friends he sits high at the right hand
of the Father
advocating for you and I that's enough
to shout that's enough to say Lord we're
so grateful for what you've done for us
don't stand looking up in the sky
Jesus says just call upon my name
and I'll be right there my friends let
us pray you may not understand God's
plan the way that God wants to do it but
he has a perfect plan it's beyond you
and I but it's for you and I so that God
can be in relationship with each and
every one he loves you he loves you he
loves you he loves you and I hope that
you feel it my friends I want to share
this with you I went to Brenda
Woodward's house her brother-in-law is
dying of cancer he didn't know the Lord
but here's what I said to him do you
know God loves you he said yes I said no
do you know that he loves you my
grandmother used to say it like that you
got to know that you know that you know
that he loves you and he said yes I know
that he loves me I said do you know that
he wants to live with you eternally and
he began to weep and he says I want that
I said Romans 10 and 9 says if we
believe in our hearts and confess with
our mouth the Lord Jesus we shall be
say it and I want you to say it like you
mean it for God so daddy that whosoever
have what have what he gave his life to
the Lord because he realized God loves
him and he wants to live with him
eternally let us pray
most gracious God I did nothing all I am
is a conduit of your love and of your
grace and I'm so glad Lord that you love
us the way that you do I can't explain
it but I'm just grateful for it so glad
that you have a plan for us the plan is
beyond sometimes what we can see what we
could imagine think or fathom the Lord
you said that before we even born you
had us on your mind
that you knew us that you have a plan
and a purpose for us
Jeremiah 20 and eleven twenty nine and
eleven says that you have a plan and a
purpose for us not to harm us but to
bring us good to bring us hope to bring
us a hope eternal Lord we just thank you
Father forgive us when we go about our
lives not thinking about the sacrifice
that you made for us that while we were
yet sinners you died for us made a way
possible
first to love you back we thank you Lord
Father I don't know what folks are going
through today but I know you know it's
my prayer Lord that they would cry out
to you that they would
just ask for you to be with them because
now you can your omnipresent you can be
with us simultaneously that you have all
power father we just thank you we lift
up this place called Providence United
Methodist Church may it continue to be a
beacon may folks come and find their way
it may you feed them and fill them with
all that they need Father continue to
raise up leaders even as I pray to lead
this church to lead us in the days ahead
we thank you for all the people behind
the scenes we thank you for Linda
Collins and for every volunteer that
come into this place to serve you
thank you for staff we have a great
staff we thank you for all the leaders
holding positions like Pam Asbury who
puts a heart and soul into it
and lead us well like brother Lee Brooks
Robby Robinson so many others who are
serving you we thank you and now let us
pray that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples our Father who are in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
give us this day our daily bread passes
we forgive those who trespass against us
power and the glory forever
the 14 verses 15 through 21 I'll be
reading from the wall if you love me you
will keep my Commandments and I will ask
the Father and He will give you another
advocate to be with you forever this is
the Spirit of Truth whom the world
cannot receive because it neither sees
him nor knows him you know him because
he abides with you and he will be in you
I will not leave you often I'm coming to
you and a little while the world will no
longer see me but you will see me
because I live you also will live on
that day you will know that I am in the
father and you and me and I and you they
who have my Commandments and keep them
are those who love me those who love me
will be loved by my father and I will
love them and will reveal myself to them
this is the word of God for the people
of God let us pray most gracious God I'm
a sinner saved by your grace I am a
broken vessel but I know all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my heart let the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking with
the thought the work of the Holy Spirit
the work
of the Holy Spirit but after working on
the sermon I've just want to add a
little peace that the work of the Holy
Spirit is to help us discover the
greatness that is inside of each of us
Wilma Rudolph put it this way never
underestimate the power of dreams in the
influence of the human spirit we're all
the same in this notion the potential
for greatness lives within each of us
but we do it all the time don't we
underestimate our own potential for
greatness I'm too young I'm too old I
don't have the right skill set as
so-and-so to do it they know what
they're doing I hope by the end of this
message today that you will understand
that Jesus left you in an inheritance
and that's the Holy Spirit that's come
to teach us how to live for him listen
to this story about Matty Stefan odd he
was a little boy born with the rear form
of muscular dystrophy who was unable to
walk unable to breathe on his own
without a respirator at the age of three
years old he began to write poetry that
shocked the world beautiful brilliant
rhythmic verses beyond his years he
poured out his feelings to cope with the
death of his brother who died from the
same disease that he has Matty said the
doctor told my mother that I was going
to die
at the age of three we divided those
odds and then
the age of four they told my mother
surely I was going to die that that's it
and we defied those odds too but my
mother said now I'm going to train your
spirit to never give up
he lived past those ages then the
doctors came back and said at 10 years
old that's it for him my friends over
the next few years rather than
surrendering to grief or being swallowed
up in self-pity he did what he could do
to make a difference in the world
this little boy became a best-selling
author and a public speaker captivating
fans like Jimmy Carter Oprah Winfrey
Larry King and all who read his book
series heartstrings what I'm here to
share with you is that Maddy understood
that there was greatness inside of him
I'm just going to give you three quotes
to give you a taste from this little boy
God gives me hope that there's something
greater than us something better and
bigger than the here and the now
something that can help teach us how to
live two sunsets are still my favorite
color rainbows on my second and three
remember to look your glass is half full
not half empty a lot of my strength
comes from God God has given me the gift
the gift of life and it's amazing that I
get to live it each day
I wonder do we feel that way that we get
to live this life each day hopefully
discovering the greatness that's inside
of us but in order to discover the
greatness that's inside of us we've got
to get in touch with the Holy Spirit
before Jesus was born
you know humanity couldn't look up in
the sky and say God you really don't
understand us I mean you're up there
you're not a composite being two eyes
two ears and a mouth your spirit and
you're perfect you don't understand what
we go through down here but then Jesus
came fully human fully divine no longer
could that be our excuse maybe the
disciples were saying well Jesus you're
going to be leaving us in a short time
in your time here was not long enough
but listen to the prayer that I read in
your hearing and I will ask the Father
and He will give you another advocate to
help you and to be with you forever
the Spirit of Truth the world cannot
accept him because it neither sees him
nor knows him but you know him for he
lives with you and will be in you listen
to this scripture John 14 verse 12 very
truly I tell you whoever believes in Me
will do the works that I've been doing
and they will do even greater things
than these because I'm going to my
father John 16 verses 7 through 8 it is
to your advantage that I go away for if
I do not go away the helper will not
come to you and when he comes he will
convict the world of sin of
unrighteousness and of judgment Romans 8
and 9 you however are not in the realm
of the flesh but are in the realm of the
Spirit indeed the Spirit of God lives in
you and if anyone does not have the
Spirit of Christ they do not belong to
Christ you know what's interesting to me
is that we will talk about God the
Father will talk about God the Son but
there's very little discussion about the
Holy Spirit we don't really talk about
it amongst ourselves we don't even talk
about it in church like we should maybe
at Pentecost Allison when we when
Pentecost that's when we talk about the
Spirit but why not the Holy Spirit is a
part of the Trinity we ought to
celebrate it we ought to talk about it
the Holy Spirit is God's agent on earth
yet is the least understood the least
preached in our churches and the least
discussed member of the Trinity and that
sad because without the Holy Spirit our
lives would be dry and mechanical and
carnal and nothing but a struggle the
Holy Spirit has come to teach us how to
live how to do all the things that Jesus
commanded when I was in seminary they
used to use the word pneumatology
pneumatology is like two greek words put
together
NUMA meaning wind breath or spirit and
logos meaning word matter or thing it's
just a way to talk about the doctrine of
the Holy Spirit the personality of the
Holy Spirit the deity of
holy spirit' the work of the holy spirit
dr. Charles swindle says but most of us
are intrigued by the holy spirit like a
moth to a lamp it's bright warm attracts
us but there's a part of us that wants
to draw closer to the Lord and then
there's another part of us that we're
afraid to talk about the Holy Spirit we
don't want to go too far to the left we
don't want to go too far to the right we
don't want to be seen as weird or
fanatical so this we just don't talk
about it but we need to talk about it we
rely too heavy on our intellect and
reason and we leave the Holy Spirit on
the side jesus intent is for us is to
live in us and through us uninhabited
let's say that our body is like a house
we invite people in but where do we
usually invite people and we invite them
into the sitting room or the living room
because we keep that kind of nice and
neat but don't go to that closet in the
hallway please don't open that closet
don't go to my basement you don't want
to go to the basement and you know I
just go down there by myself nobody goes
in the basement don't go to the Attic we
just throw a lot of stuff up there but
God wants to roam uninhabited and he
wants to clean up the areas of our lives
and show us how to truly truly live for
God when I read this scripture this is
Jesus farewell discourse this is his
last will and testament if you will for
the disciples and for us you see Jesus
didn't have a donkey to leave behind he
didn't have a home to leave behind he
didn't have fine jewelry that somebody
was able to sell but what he left behind
was a life well-lived and what he's
leaving us is a deposit of the Holy
Spirit that's our inheritance it's
better than money amen it's better than
silver and gold is better than a house
and a boat hello it's better than a
plane Jimmy's listening but Jesus is
saying I want you to understand that
there's something great inside of you
and when the Holy Spirit comes to live
to reign and rule in your hearts it's
going to teach you things you could
never imagine
just think of what Jesus says the things
that you've seen me do you're going to
do greater things how can we do greater
things than what Jesus did but that's
what the scripture says the Holy Spirit
is coming to teach us how to do that
theologian general Slaven of the
interpretation commentary he writes
about the power of these seven verses
that I read but more specifically he
says keeping Jesus word or his
commandment is a condition for really
enjoying the Father's love let me read
it to you again
if you love me keep my commands and I
will ask the Father and He will give you
another advocate to help you and to be
with you forever the Spirit of Truth the
world cannot accept him because it
neither sees him nor knows him but you
know him for he lives with you and will
be in you I will not leave you often
I will come to you and before long the
world will not see me anymore but you
will see me and because I live you will
live also on that day you will realize
that I am in the father and you are in
me and I am in you whoever has my
commands and keep them they're the ones
that love me the one who loves me will
be loved by my father and I too will
love them and show myself to them in
this little brief pericope of passage
Jesus is offering us that theme again
love if your disciple he's saying
they'll know that you're my disciples if
you love one another unlike Matthew
nowhere in John does Jesus command us to
go a second mile or turn the other cheek
or render unto Caesar what it seizes but
in this Johnny and passage Jesus gives
us a single commandment which occurred
just before this reading he says I give
you a new commandment that you love one
another just as I have loved you you
should also love one another by this
everyone will know that you are my
disciples and then he says it again if
you love one another no one has greater
love than this than to lay down one's
life for his own friends love repetitive
circular overwhelming he keeps on saying
it in other words if we fail to love we
and everything else if we fail to love
we fail and everything else your
inheritance is the Holy Spirit Jesus
wants to live in us and through us
uninhibited and the question is what we
invite them in Romans 8 in 10 says that
we believe in our hearts and confess
with our mouth the Lord Jesus then we
shall be saved
and there is our deposit and all of you
I want to read this again to you but
from the message if you love me show it
by doing what I've told you I will talk
to the Father and He will provide you
another friend so that you will always
have someone with you
this friend is the Spirit of Truth the
godless world can't take him in because
it doesn't have eyes to see him and
doesn't know what to do doesn't know who
to look for but you know him already
because he's been staying with you and
will be in you I will not leave you
often I'm coming back in just a little
while the world will no longer see me
but you will see me because I'm alive
you're about to come alive and at that
moment you will know absolutely that I'm
in the father that you're in me and I am
in you
repeat after me greater is he that lives
in me than he that is in the world
greater is he that lives in me then he
that lives in the world my friends God
wants us to walk in a newness of life
but to understand the greatness that's
on the inside of us I tried to live life
on my own doing it my way anybody else
been there and it didn't yield much it
yields very little because we can't live
this life without the Holy Spirit to
teach us to convict us to show us the
way and Jesus says I wouldn't just leave
without a way for us to stay connected
without you abiding without you being
connected to the vine this is the way
receive the Holy Spirit in your life and
witness the greatness that's there a kid
from the streets of Jersey City that
should have died when I was 21 and now
I'm in Richmond Virginia the Lord buffed
me up educated me and I'm at Providence
United Methodist Church delivering a
message because of that deposit of my
inheritance not what I used to be maybe
I'm not what I ought to be but praise
God he loves me amen and he loves you
too and he says receive my spirit
receive your inheritance it's greater
than money it's greater than anything
that you can purchase it's God's Way of
saying you belong to me and I belong to
you
I'm in the father the fathers and me I'm
in you and you're also in me let us pray
most gracious God you are an amazing God
to even think that we can do greater
works than you have done yet you spoke
it they these are your words to look at
a little boy like Maddie's stephannie
and to see how you used him to change
the world to believe in himself beyond
his wheelchair to believe that his words
would touch the hearts of celebrities
kings and queens he comes as a good
example to realize the greatness that's
inside of him that he understood his
inheritance in may we to stop looking at
our pass stop saying I'm not worthy
stop saying maybe this is for someone
else greatness is in someone else it's
in each and every one of us that
receives you Lord I pray for our sick
and our shut-in today that they might
feel your presence and know your
presence even though they're not here we
know that your omnipresent you can be
with them simultaneously father thank
you for Providence United Methodist
Church a place where love is shared so
freely place
their grace is given a place where
there's opportunities to serve this your
community and now let us pray that
prayer that Jesus taught his disciples
our Father who are in heaven hallowed be
thy name thy kingdom come thy will be
done on earth as it is in heaven give us
this day our daily bread and forgive us
our trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power
this it was called the twin one of the
twelve was not with them when Jesus came
so the other disciples told him we have
seen of the Lord but he said to them
unless I see the mark of the nails in
his hands and put my finger in the mark
of the nails and put my hand in his side
I will not believe a week later his
disciples were again in the house and
Thomas was with them although the doors
were shut Jesus came and stood among
them and said peace be with you then he
turned and said to Thomas put your
finger here and see my hands reach out
your hand and put it in my side do not
doubt but believe Thomas answered him I
Lord and my god jesus said to him have
you believed because you have seen me
blessed are those who have not seen and
yet have come to believe another reading
this morning comes to us from the book
of Matthew chapter 28 verses 16 to 20
now the eleven disciples went to Galilee
to the mountain to which Jesus had
directed them when they saw him they
worshiped him but some doubted and Jesus
came and said to them all authority in
heaven and on earth has been given to me
go therefore and make disciples of all
nations baptizing them in the name of
the Father and of the Son and of the
Holy Spirit and teaching them to obey
everything that I have commanded you and
remember I am with you always to the end
of the age the Word of God for the
people of God
please stand and we're going to sing
from a hymnal page once most gracious
God I Yuma sinner saved by your grace I
am a broken vessel but I know all you
have to do is say the word and that
should be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will Lord it's my
prayer that you would hide this preacher
behind the cross that your people might
see you and not me that they might hear
you and not me let the words of my mouth
and the meditation of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer force in
Christ's name I pray amen I want to
challenge your thinking with the thought
this morning do it for the Lord
scripture says whatever you do work at
it with all of your heart as working for
the lord in not man the text that we've
that Daniel was read in your hearing
this is Jesus second appearance to his
disciples the second time that he has
shown them his nail marks in his side
was interesting about this text despite
its brevity is that it says Jesus showed
and they saw Jesus showed his nail marks
and he showed his side in Scripture
says and they saw you remember Thomas's
challenge when Jesus came the first time
and he appeared to the disciples Thomas
was not there and they just wanted to
give Thomas a report but Thomas was soul
may be angry or caught up in his grief
he says I don't care unless I see the
nail marks in his hand unless I touch
her side I will not believe how many of
you know it pays to know who you're
talking to because Jesus heard it
because he showed up the take on
Thomas's challenge Jesus shows up and he
says peace be with you and then he
turned towards Thomas and he showed him
his nail marks Thomas you see coming
touch it you need to see so come and
take a look let me just stop for a
minute because I've preached this text
many times but I've always preached
about faith and doubt and so the
challenge for me since it was a part of
the lectionary tax was to to look for
new nuance is there anything there that
I was that I missed last year maybe I
won't miss it this time and it's simple
but it was there the fact that he
appeared twice I remembered that the
scripture says that he showed his scars
and that's where I want to pick up that
there's a
Prince between a wound in a scar a wound
is an injury to living tissue caused by
a cut a blow or an impact you could
imagine what Jesus went through before
he went through the cross and while he
was on the cross so when the skin is
broken a wound can use a confessor but a
scar is a wound that's been healed
somebody ought to say Amen but let's
agree that there are two kinds of wounds
the physical wound end an emotional
wound an emotional wound can be from our
pasts that we bring right into our
future that can hold us back sometime
from reaching our goals there are people
who spend their lives deep depressed
I'll press confused laws sad and angry
there some who visit the psychiatrist
often counselors treatment centers but
still without any real clue to how to
stop the pain when I think of emotional
pain I thought of Michael Jackson he was
told by his father that he was ugly that
his nose was all over his face here's
this guy who came up with hits like
thriller and I'm looking at the man in
the mirror it was on one night in 1984
that he 18 Grammys and one night some
people never win one their entire career
Michael Jackson this incredible
entertainer struggled his whole life
with emotional pain as I think of the
day
Prince between wounds and scars I
believe that we're all wounded in many
ways some of our wounds can be
self-inflicted hello some of us can be
wounded by other some of us have been
wounded by the church some of us have
been wounded by life but how many of you
know that Jesus can turn our wounds into
scars the difference being is that scars
can tell the story of healing scars
remind us of the grace of God when I was
10 years old and growing up in jersey
city i was playing in an open field it's
not like Richmond where we have a lot of
land and kids can play so there was a
lot of rocks and broken glass and I was
doing something went up to catch the
ball and came down on my knees and
landed on broken bottles I had to get
like 10 stitches in each knee and I'm
not going to tell you that I cried and
it was blood everywhere on that you
don't want to hear that Joshua I was
brave that's what you need to know papa
was brave but I will tell you that even
when I wear shorts today somebody will
point and say how did you get those
scars and I'm able to talk to them about
the grace of God you see the scars have
a story but it's really a story about
God's grace you know there's
of us that we somebody ask us how we're
doing and we say bye when the truth is
we're not fine anybody know what I'm
talking about and fine is just an
acronym that means feelings in need of
expression so we're not always fine but
if we really want God to do some healing
in our lives we need to just take the
band-aid off stop pretending stop
wearing a mask and asks for God's divine
healing Jesus showed his disciples his
scars not that he was hurt any less when
it happened but that his wounds are
healed I want to say to you this morning
if you wounded in battle give it to
Jesus if your pain is out of control
this morning give it to Jesus if you've
been hurt by the church give it to Jesus
even if you're disappointed with
yourself not reaching your own goals
give it to Jesus if your heart has been
wounded by loved one yet again give it
to Jesus Jesus is the healer of the
brokenhearted and today receive as
healing receive His forgiveness what I
love about this story is that Thomas
moved from doubt to faith it was a big
step how do you move from unbelieving to
believe but when Jesus showed up Thomas
recognized the one who had who he had
been with for the last three years the
one who had touched his life changed his
life listen to his response listen to
his confession of faith my Lord my God
when was the last time that you called
on the Lord and said My Lord my God my
friend sometimes I think the more we
have the less we call on God we become
so self-sufficient that we forget our
dependence on him unlike Thomas
confession because it's unique he went
from not believing to expressing his
faith my lord my god i was sharing with
daniel as i was working with this text
when we use the word to exegete the text
it means that we look at what's there
and we try to make sense of it and we
give it back to the congregation but as
I was doing that I began to ISIL jeet
the text and what that means is that we
begin to use our imagination to maybe
what's not there and as I begin to I
sujeet the text i began to think about
Thomas's faith but not only that but how
he experienced the grace of God
sometimes the grace of God can be so
overwhelming that Thomas may have began
to ask why would God still want me why
would God still love me why would God
still want to use me I don't know about
you but I've been there anybody or what
maybe it was just me and Thomas I'm
sorry but i found this litany that talks
about why would God still want me an
aspiring author unknown and it goes like
this I'm not perfect I have all sorts of
problems i'm not even sure about my
ability do I have any gifts I'm just not
worthy why would God want me
the litany goes on to say well did you
know that Moses stuttered David's armor
didn't fit Timothy had ulcers Jacob was
a liar David had an affair did you know
that Solomon was too rich Abraham was
too old David was too young Peter was
afraid of death and Lazarus was just
plain Oded did you know that naomi was a
widow Paul was a persecutor of the
church Moses was a murder Jonah ran from
God's will Jeremiah was depressed and
suicidal Eliza was just burned out did
you know that Martha was a worrywart nor
got drunk but thanks be to God that God
doesn't require a job interview for
salvation somebody ought to say amen
he's our Heavenly Father he's always
there amen God doesn't look at our
financial forecasts of gain and loss to
see whether we can be used or not God is
not prejudiced or partial not judging
not grudging sassy or brassy or death to
our pride nor blind to our needs listen
my friend God already knows who we are
and whatever we are God loves us period
can you handle it God loves us period
there's no comma it goes on to say Satan
says you're not worthy Jesus says so
what I am I died for you Satan looks
back and he sees all of our mistakes but
God looks back and he sees the cross God
doesn't calculate the 99 times that we
fallen God doesn't say dark you know
what that's a hundred times I'm done
with you that's not the God that we
serve if you have children you remember
walking with them when they took those
first steps
with the little bow legs and they take a
couple steps and they fall down you were
happy to pick them up and let them try
again that's our God that's how God he
picks us up and he says do it again do
it again sure there's a lots of reasons
why God maybe shouldn't want us but God
loves us period and there's nothing you
can do about it amen whatever we do we
ought to do it for the Lord Jesus
appeared to his disciples to strengthen
them to make sure that they want the
path to ministry in which he had called
them my question for you this morning is
are you on a god path are you on your
own path it's just the question I can't
answer it only you can answer it are you
doing the will of god are you living
this life for yourself listen to the
Great Commission because I think that
this is why Jesus showed back up then
the eleven disciples went to Galilee to
the mountains where Jesus had told them
to go and when they saw him they
worshiped worshiped him but some doubted
then Jesus came them to them and he says
all authority in heaven and on earth has
been given to me therefore go and make
disciples of all nations baptizing them
in the name of the Father and of the Son
and of the Holy Spirit and teaching them
to obey everything I have commanded you
and surely I will be with you and to the
ends of the age he promised to be with
us always do you get that get it down in
your spirit he promised to be with us
always no matter what you go through God
has promised to be there with you some
of us have
have challenges but he promised to be
with us always to the end of the age God
it is amazing God you know I hear this
talk about the United Methodist Church
and people say things all our church is
going to be split all the Methodist
Church is dying and you know what I say
to all of it God can still sustain God's
church how many of you know that to be
true even if he decides to do without
using a building amen notice what the
Great Commission says it didn't say take
a seat relax and drink some iced tea
that's not what the text said the text
says go and make disciples hello notice
that the Great Commission is not a
specific because there's some of your
saying well I'll leave that to the young
people let the young people do that
that's not what it says as long as you
have breath in your body you can pray
amen yeah somebody as long as you have
breath in your body you can study right
amen anybody acts 2 verse 42 says this
they devoted themselves to the Apostles
teaching and to the fellowship to the
breaking of bread into prayer this is
the purpose of the church teaching
biblical doctrine so that we can be
grounded in our faith and no longer as
infants tossed by the waves of anybody's
teaching you know when you grounded in
your faith you won't be a church hopper
hello
you'll stay planted you'll plant your
fleet right where you are and allow God
to blossom you right where you are every
Sunday you and somebody else's church
how can you grow like that plant your
feet begin to use your gifts to make a
difference right where God has sent you
and then it says that the church ought
to be a place for the fellowship of
believers the Bible says forsake not the
assembling of ourselves together and
this is my argument for those who think
that they can stay home and get it
scripture says forsake not the
assembling of yourselves how are you
going to get it you're going to rip that
page out of the Bible something about
the fellowship being in a community of
faith that we get what we need amen I
don't know about you but I don't know
how people do it without a church that's
just me but I'm putting it out there how
do we do it without the Fellowship of
one another I'm standing on the line at
the back of the church and people
commonly they want prayer and they want
to share what's going on with them it's
a special time to let somebody know that
something's going on in your life
we have a prayer group in this church we
meet every Thursday and it's a special
time when we can pray and undergird
everything through prayer and then it
says that they observe the Lord's Supper
don't you listen to the prayer every
time we do communion when we pray Lord
bless us who are gathered here and on
these gets the bread and wine make them
be for us the body in the blood of
Christ redeemed by your precious blood
by your spirit make us to be one in
ministry with you and ministry with one
another until all the world's until
Christ comes and we feast at his
heavenly banquet is through your son Oh
glory all honor is yours or mighty
father somehow when we get together and
we take communion it says that we are
one in God hello it says whether I'm
black and you're white or Hispanic or
whatever we are one in Christ communion
is a symbol of unity that's why Jesus
said it as often as you eat this bread
and you drink this cup you do so in
remembrance of me how many of you know
daddy's watching and then last in acts 2
verse 42 talks about prayer that the
church is to be a place that promotes
prayer that teaches prayer that
practices prayer I don't know about you
but I'm a product of prayer anybody else
when I was an undergrad my mother high
school education somehow I don't know
but she always knew when midterms and
finals came and she would tell me that
I'm on the church's prayer list and I'm
on a few of her friends church's prayer
lists by the time I got to graduate
school I was calling a mama put me on
the prey least I got a big old exam
Daniel knows what I'm talking about he's
working on his dissertation 79 pages i
think it is 87 pages thank God and I'm
finishing Daniel and praying for you but
Philippians 4 6 and 7 says this that we
are to encourage one another do not be
anxious about anything but in everything
by prayer and petition with Thanksgiving
present your requests to God and the
peace of God would passes all
understanding will guard your hearts and
your minds in Christ Jesus what am I
saying Jesus appeared to his disciples
to strengthen them and to make sure that
they won the path of ministry to which
he had called it are you on God's path
are you doing the will of God only what
you do for Christ is going to last how
many of you know that to be true only
what you do for Christ is going to last
would you bow your heads a moment of
Prayer Daniel please come
dear holy God we refer to doubting
Thomas as something defective as some
sort of embarrassment to Christians but
we push this defection because we see
ourselves in Thomas we understand his
reluctance to believe until he
experiences it he had trust in you
before but had been let down because you
allowed yourself to be captured and
crucified but deep down we love this
story because we can also feel Thomas's
desire to believe in you you are content
with us being left in the darkness of
doubt this story this morning speaks to
our human need for your evidence of your
reality what a wonder it could be to
actually catch a glimpse of you and your
resurrection glory and we have we have
seen you roll the stone away we have
seen Jesus's hands we have touched his
side you made yourself real to us dear
Lord we ask you to continue to make
yourself real in whatever way that you
choose because your knowledge is greater
than our understanding give us the eyes
to see you give us the hands that reach
out and to feel you give us the will to
want to pursue you and want to know you
just like Thomas help us to trust you
with all that we are as disciples of
Jesus Christ let us go forth and carry
this message of hope of love of light
into the world of pain of hurt and
darkness
let us carry the warmth of this life
this warmth of love into the cold places
of darkness of doubt that you send us to
and as fuel for this journey let us pray
the prayer in which Christ taught us to
pray saying our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
Thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven
you
you
our second reading this morning comes to
us from the book of John chapter 20
verses 1 to 18 listen now for the word
of the Lord early on the first day of
the week while it was still dark Mary
Magdalene came to the tomb and saw that
the stone had been removed from the tomb
so she ran and went to Simon Peter and
the other disciple the one whom Jesus
loved and said to them they have taken
the Lord out of the tomb and we do not
know where they have laid him then Peter
and the other disciple set out and ran
towards the tomb the two were running
together but the other disciple outran
Peter and reached the tomb first he bent
down to look in and saw the linen
wrappings lying there but he did not go
in then Simon Peter came following him
and went into the tomb he saw the linen
wrappings lying there and the cloth that
had been on Jesus's head not lying with
the other linen wrappings but rolled up
in a place by itself than the other
disciple who reached the tomb first also
went in and he saw and believed fresh
yet they did not understand the
scripture that he must rise from the
dead then the disciples returned to
their homes but Mary stood weeping
outside the tomb as she wept she bent
over to look into the tomb and saw two
angels in white sitting where the body
of Jesus had been lying one at the head
and the other at the feet they said to
her woman why are you weeping and she
said to them they have taken away my
Lord and I do not know where they have
laid him when she had said this she
turned around and saw Jesus standing
there but she did not know that it was
Jesus jesus said to her woman why are
you weeping whom are you looking for
supposing him to be the gardener she
said sir if you have carried him away
please tell me where you have laid him
and I will take him away jesus said to
her Mary she turned to hammond in Hebrew
Sedra bony which means teacher
jesus said to her do not hold on to me
because I have not yet ascended to the
Father but go to my brothers and say to
them that I am ascending to my father
and your father to my god and your God
Mary Magdalene went and announced to the
disciples that I have seen the Lord and
she told them what he had said these
things to her the Word of God for the
people of God let us pray most gracious
God we asked for your presence we ask
that you would come in sup with us lord
I ask that you would hide this preacher
behind the cross that your people might
see you and not me that they might hear
you and not me let the words of my mouth
and the meditation of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer force in
Christ's name I pray amen I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought the celebration of
Easter the celebration of Easter there
was a man by the name of Frank Morris
who was a lawyer by trade and he was a
skeptic he decided to leave his practice
to use his fat finding skills to
disprove that the resurrection of Christ
had never taken place he wrote a book
entitled to move the stone it was a
skeptics look at the death and the
resurrection of Christ which indicates
that Morrison had a personal impetus in
writing this book he was apparently
personally intrigued by the mystery
surrounding the events of the four days
between Holy Thursday and Easter Sunday
the end result was so overwhelming and
so conclusive that he himself became a
believer and one of the greatest
defenders of the resurrection how many
of you know that the resurrection is a
historical event it happened it's
recorded over five hundred witnesses
witness Jesus after the resurrection my
friends I want to share seven things
about the resurrection that I think it's
important for you to know the
resurrection is powerful because there
were so many people who witnessed this
it was so overwhelming you could not
deny that it happened and because it
happened so many people began to believe
in Jesus to believe in Jesus is to
believe in God and if God exists and
created the universe then God has power
over it and surely has power to raise
Jesus from the dead number two the
resurrection is powerful because it
validates Jesus claim about who he says
he is he is the son of God he is the
Messiah according to Jesus his
resurrection was a sign from heaven and
it affirmed his ministry number three
resurrection also validates the Old
Testament prophecies that were foretold
about Jesus suffering and death my
friends of Jesus Christ is not
resurrected than we have no hope Jesus
says I am the resurrection and I am the
life and in that statement he claimed to
be the source of both there is no
resurrection apart from Christ there is
no eternal life apart from Christ
Jesus does more than give new life he is
life and that's why death has no power
for him my friends we can truly
celebrate Easter because of what Jesus
has done for us number five Jesus is the
firstfruits of those who have fallen
asleep first Corinthians chapter 15
verse 20 in other words Jesus led us in
life and he also led us in death the
resurrection of Jesus Christ is
important to all of humanity because
it's the basic tenets of our Christian
faith number six the resurrection is
important because it has an impact on
our lives just think about it all the
saints who come before us would trade
their earthly life for an eternal vessel
I like the way the Apostle Paul ends his
discourse on resurrection he says these
words therefore my dear brothers and
sisters stand firm let nothing move you
always give yourselves fully to the work
of the Lord because you know that your
labor and the Lord is not in vain it's
not in vain we know that he's risen
Martin Luther King says it this way
Caesar might occupy the palace and
Christ the cross but on that day Christ
so split history into ad and BC so that
even the life of Caesar must be dated by
his name it's a historical fact it
happened somebody ought to say Amen I
came across this story about a young boy
named Ernie and Ernie was visiting his
grandmother with his mother and father
and she prepared the food and she put it
on the table and
Ernie duh great and he just started
eating and going for it his father says
Ernie you know better than that we don't
eat without saying a blessing and the
mother jumped in she says Ernie you know
better than that we always say prayer at
our house he said but mom this is not
our house this is grandma's house and we
don't have to pray because grandma knows
how to cook I want to laugh a basic
point into all of us is that God has a
plan we may not understand God's plan
but God has a plan he had a plan for our
salvation it was for him to give his
only begotten so that we might have a
relationship with him there are five
things that I saw in this text the tomb
is empty praise the Lord but Jesus
appears to Mary Magdalene and Jesus
appears to his disciples and then he
appears to Thomas and what I like about
the Gospel of John he gives us the
purpose for resurrection the Gospel of
John tells us that the tomb is empty
Mary Magdalene she goes and she saw that
the tomb was open when she went inside
there were two angels one at the head
and one at the foot and she said who are
you looking for where've you what have
you done with my lord she says where
have you placed him
they said Jesus has risen just like he
told you he would but she also ran into
Jesus she thought he was the gardener
maybe she was overwhelmed by grief maybe
she didn't fully believe but when he
called her by name Mary she understood
maybe it was hard to believe but she saw
him and I imagine Jesus just showed us
his hands shoulder his side he said it's
me I've risen just as I told you she
went back and she told the disciples
they came running just to see for
themselves and they realized that Jesus
left his grave clothes you see he died
never to die again he's alive as the
story goes on and I only wanted to go to
verse 18 because I know that you want to
get out of here go to lunch but Jesus
came through a locked door the disciples
are in the upper room and he comes
through and I imagined that they were
amazed and he had fellowship with them
but what I want you to hear in this
story was that Thomas was not there and
Thomas says unless I see his hands and
see the wound on his side and place my
finger there I will not believe how
about a
do we also need proof that he lives
maybe some of you sitting here this
morning and you're saying unless Jesus
shows up and helped me in my present
situation I won't believe unless Jesus
can get me a job I won't believe unless
Jesus can give me a spouse I won't
believe unless Jesus can turn my prayers
into something tangible like dollar
bills I won't believe my prayer this
morning is that before this sermon is
over if you're sitting on the sidelines
of not believing that you too will
understand the gift and the price paid
at Calvary scripture says one week later
the disciples were in the locked room
again but this time Thomas was with them
and again Jesus came and he stood among
the disciples and he said to Thomas put
your finger here see my hands reach out
your hand and put it into my side stop
you're doubting and believe Thomas fell
on his knees and he says my lord my god
jesus said to him because you have seen
you believe blessed are those who have
not seen and have believed the
celebration of Easter is to believe even
though we have not seen as i shared with
you scripture says over five hundred
witnesses saw Jesus
after the resurrection right at the end
John says that Jesus performed these
miracles and these signs in the presence
of the sight of his disciples some of
these which were not recorded in the
book but that they were written that you
might believe that Jesus is the Messiah
the Son of God and that by believing you
might have life in his name it's not in
this text but I i want to just share
with you that in the Gospel of Luke
chapter 24 jesus is risen you can
imagine the talk going around two men
were walking along the road of Emmaus
and they were talking about all the
events that happened in Jerusalem
scripture says suddenly meaning Jesus
just showed up unexpectedly without
warning and he joined those two men
walking along they didn't know who he
was however Jesus says to the two men
what are you talking about they started
talking about the advance that were
going on but still they didn't recognize
him let's not pass
too much judgment on these men because
too often we even come to church and we
don't recognize God's presence we're out
there in the communities and people are
hurting and they need to see christ in
us and sometimes we'll walk by a
situation but we don't recognize God's
presence right there in the midst of us
telling us to go ahead and to do it go
ahead and mentor the kid next door go
ahead and help the family that you know
that don't have any food be my face be
my hands go out and do it but we won't
Jesus just showed up they eventually
invite Jesus to their house for a meal
notice what he does he breaks the bread
and he gives thanks product probably set
a blessing over the wine but once he
broke the bread they recognized who he
was and scripture says he left their
presence do you believe this morning
that he's risen I shall hope you do on
this Easter Sunday we celebrate the most
historical event in history the Apostle
Paul says that if Jesus did not rise
from the dead then all about preaching
and all of our living is in vain if
Jesus did not rise from the dead then we
have no hope for forgiveness of sin and
life after death you see to the world
death is the ultimate hopeless situation
there's a saying
where there is life there is hope and
when life is over hope is lost but not
for us who died in Christ amen we will
be absent from body and present with the
Lord somebody ought to get happy about
that listen Buddha is not the Lord
Buddha died never to live again Muhammad
is not the Lord he died never to live
again Jesus is the only one who lives
took his resurrected body with him he
lives and this proves that he is the son
of God I like the song that says I serve
a risen Savior he's in the world today I
know that he is living whatever men may
say I see his hand of mercy I hear his
voice of chair and just the time I need
him he's always near he lives he lives
Christ Jesus lives today he walks with
me and he talks with me along life's
narrow way he lives he lives salvation
to impart you asked me how I know he
lives he lives within my heart let us
pray dear God of eternity you are
present with us because of Christ rising
from the dead and you persist and
lifting us up to new life in Christ
Jesus every day we celebrate this day
the gift of eternal life that you have
bestowed upon us out of your love in
this moment we bring to you our prayers
for this world and for our own lives
this day whether they
maybe supplications for mercy for
loneliness for pain or praises for a joy
of happiness you know what is written on
our hearts our souls and on our minds we
ask that you give us the strength to be
Easter in our world that is so in
desperate need of it everywhere we look
we see tombs of pain of loneliness of
despair help us carry the good news of
hope that those stones and those tombs
will be rolled away that those tombs
will be destroyed and that's your light
may shine into their darkness we pray
that you give us the strength to go into
those tombs just like Peter and the
disciple to carry that light to those
who are in need of it now God give us
the courage in one voice to pray the
prayer that Christ taught us to pray
saying our Father who art in heaven
maybe yes just come for
Toback he's an author of a book entitled
real leaders don't follow but he shares
this great story of returning home from
an international business trip and he
struck up this conversation with the man
seated next to him turns out that they
both were executives in the tech
industry and they had a lot in common
except for the fact that this gentleman
was older more experienced and a bit
wiser towards the end of their flight
they somehow got on to the topic of
relationships and Steve Toback says he
wasn't sure whether he should enter into
this conversation because he didn't
think that he and his wife would last
through the year but this man seemed to
have been married forever however this
gentleman gave him a brilliant piece of
white of advice that he says he will
never forget do you want to know what it
is there's only two people who want to
know what it is oh okay it's simple but
it's profound do the unexpected do the
unexpected Steve Toback says isn't it
true how the big things expensive gifts
grandiose gestures never seem to quite
make our spouses as happy as we thought
but it's the little things the
unexpected things that matter the most
bringing home chocolates when it is in
Valentine's Day bringing home a single
rose and to really give it from your
heart having I love you day simply
because your spouse is the love of your
life saying to your wife let's go out to
dinner when you know she's tired but she
would have prepared dinner anyway
saving her the trip from going to the
grocery store by picking up the
groceries on your way home do the
unexpected ladies are you listening
because I want you to do the unexpected
also surprise your husband your husband
with a simple date night so that when he
gets home from work you too can enjoy an
intimate conversation over dinner
randomly stop and kiss your husband
passionately that's all it takes as all
it takes men that's all it takes right
before you go to bed offer a quick foot
massage or backrub to relieve the
tensions of the day I shared earlier my
wife she don't do foot rubs because she
would need counseling afterwards so but
do the unexpected send your husband a
text letting him know why you love him
and the one thing that you appreciate
about him do the unexpected in today's
text you'll find that Jesus did the
unexpected God is always ready to do his
greatest work precisely at the moment we
began to think that nothing's going to
happen when we become hopeless the
moment we reached the end of our rope
God steps in and he says don't worry
I've got everything under control God's
powers far beyond anything that we can
comprehend so why shouldn't we expect
God to do the unexpected the Apostle
Paul says it this way in Ephesians 3
chapter 20 verse 21 now known to him who
was able to do immeasurably more than
all that we can ask or imagine according
to the power that is at work within him
to him be the glory in the church and in
Jesus Christ throughout all the ages
forever and ever I want to challenge
your thinking with the thought with God
expect the unexpected with God expect
the unexpected let us pray most gracious
God I am a sinner saved by your grace I
am a broken vessel but I know all you
have to do is say the word and I shall
be healed long enough to do your work
and to do your will hide this preacher
behind the cross the day that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditation of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer force
in Christ's name we pray amen today
we're talking about the Lazarus of
Bethany there's another Lazarus in the
Bible and I don't want us to confuse him
about the poor man Lazarus but this is
the Lazarus of Bethany who was the
brother of Mary and Martha and these
siblings were friends of the disciples
of Jesus in verse 5 it says and they
were the one the people that Jesus loved
it was on one occasion that an urgent
message came from Bethany to Jesus that
his friend Lazarus had become ill
continuing they said Mary and Martha
really want you to come because they
know that you can heal him for he is
near death Jesus then puzzled his
disciples and friends he started by
saying the illness would not lead to
death rather it would be for the glory
of God
scripture says that he stayed where he
was for a few more days you could
imagine the disciples wondering why he
didn't go and check on lavish lavish was
a friend it was someone that Jesus loved
God's power can never be delayed Jesus
does things according to the timing of
God the Father not man and we need to
understand that delay doesn't always
mean denial but if we honest sometimes
difficult to trust God's timing we are
people who want what we want and as a
matter of fact we want it right now amen
but God doesn't always work on our
timetable and it causes us grief yet
there's never a time in which he's not
aware of the desires of our heart God
knows everything God's timing will
always be perfect even when our trust is
not you've heard people say he may not
come when you want him but he's always
on he's on God's time amen not our time
not on Bahamian time y'all know what
Bahamian time is when you get there but
he's on God's time
looking at this I started thinking about
scripture that brings us comfort as it
relates to this Isaiah 40 verses 31 but
those who hope in the Lord will renew
their strength they will soar on wings
like ingles they will run and not grow
weary they will walk and not faint
ecclesiastics 3 verse 1 says there was a
time for everything in every season for
every activity that takes place under
the heavens Jesus does things according
to the timing of God the Father as i was
looking at this story once again he
stays there for two more days we know
the story Lazarus dies imagine with me
if you will Jesus gets there and they
say Lord we know that if you had been
here Lazarus would not have died there
stricken with grief frustrated
overwhelmed so bad to the point that it
disturbed Jesus that he himself began to
weep but Jesus is about to do the
unexpected you see the problem in his
story Mary and Martha believed that we
live in a cause-and-effect world they
believe that things are supposed to turn
out a certain way they believe if you
continue to do a then eventually be
would happen more specifically that if
Jesus would have been there a then B
Lazarus would not have died but Jesus
did the unexpected
he says where have you laid him and they
said Lord come and see notice in the
scripture they take Jesus to the tomb
it's a cave he doesn't go in he doesn't
look around and say laughs are you in
there scripture says he looks up and he
begins to pray out loud and he says
father I thank you that you always hear
me I'm not saying this for my own
benefit but I'm saying this for the
benefit of those who are listening and
then he does something really powerful
he cries out Lazarus come forth but let
me just say I was looking up the word
resuscitation in the roar and the word
resurrection and I was asking myself
what's the difference in this particular
story Jesus didn't say I'm the
resuscitation in the life he says I am
the resurrection in the life
resuscitation can be defined as revival
from apparent death from unconsciousness
a revitalization but a resurrection is
different you remember Jesus stayed away
a few more days Lazarus has been in this
tomb for four days they cautioned him
that the body has already began to decay
but notice Jesus doesn't go look in the
tomb to see for himself he's God he's
going to reveal that he is the son of
God Jesus had told them earlier that
Lazarus was not dead that he was only
sleeping because Jesus was looking
through the eyes through the spiritual
lens not just the physical lens
sometimes that's where we get stuck
because we're just looking at the
spiritual lens Lazarus come out and when
Lazarus came out he probably looked like
a mummy because he was wrapped in grave
clothes and Jesus says loosen and set
him free what's binding you this morning
what's holding you back from full joy
what's in the way maybe you need to to
pray maybe you need to stop and to look
up not look at your situation because
that's what gets us in trouble we become
so bogged down by the burden but Jesus
looked up and he prayed what a great
example for you and I to look up cry out
to God to ask God
show up in a great way and to do the
unexpected Jesus revealed who he is
that's what I like about the gospel John
the Gospel of John is probably the most
theological books of all the Gospels
because he also explains that the
purpose was so that God the Father would
be glorified Jesus raised the widow of
Nan and Luke 7 verses 11 through 17
Jesus raised Jarius daughter and Luke
841 through 42 and now he raises Lazarus
in John 11 1 through 46 when Jesus raise
people from the dead he performed these
miracles so that they would know that he
is the son of god and that he has power
over sickness over life over death I
love John verses 1 and 1 I mean vs 1
maybe through 6 in the beginning was the
word of God and the Word was with God
and the Word was God he was in the
beginning with God all things that were
made were made through him and without
him was not anything made that was made
and him was life and the life was the
light of men the light shines in the
darkness and the darkness cannot hide it
and down in verse 14 he says and the
word became flesh and dwelt among us
we've seen his glory the glory of the
son of the Father and John 14 and nine
he says Jesus says have I been with you
so long and you still do not know me
he's talking to Philip who ever seen me
has seen the father how can you say show
us the father he in the father are one
he revealed who he is I think the
description more than anything is about
hope what is hope to trust in to wait
for to look for to desire something or
someone to expect something beneficial
in the future hoping isn't always
rational hope doesn't always make sense
hope sees beyond the obvious hope
appears naive but without hope what do
we have I was talking to Robert Davis my
chaplain and the Marine Corps and I said
tell me about your hope in Jesus he says
because of what Jesus did my salvation
is sure but I'm so grateful for the hope
he gives me that when I die I will also
live eternally but I'm going to see my
mother again some of you have lost
spouses some of you have lost friends
but our hope is that they died in Christ
they will also rise in Christ we're
going to see him again amen this is the
hope that Jesus is offering I can't wait
to Easter to really tell you about
resurrection and why we ought to give
God praise every day of our lives for
the gift of salvation John 14 says fret
not thyself because of evildoers ye
believe in God believe also in me in my
father's house are many dwelling places
if it were not so I would have told you
I go to prepare a place for you and
where I am he may be also
you know the way to the place that I'm
going I will not leave you often hope
hope lifts our eyes hope allows us to
see what we can truly be hope tells us
that there's more than what the eye can
see let's hope for it hope forces us to
keep on walking to keep on searching to
keep on longing to keep on loving and
hope will lead us to faith that is the
solid rock found in Jesus Christ will
you trust him the day will you expect
God to show up in your situation and
trust that he will let us pray most
gracious God we love you and we thank
you for loving us right back we know
that the father has a plan for each and
every one of us help us to fulfill the
plan that you have for us help us to
trust you to realize that you can do
anything but fail there's no failure in
you lord you can do what our minds can't
even conceive you can do
immeasurably more than we can fathom or
even imagine what do you have all power
so father let your will be done today
let it be done in all of our lives and
now Lord I for our sick and I'll shut-in
ask that you be with them for those who
are grieving I pray your hand upon their
lives then Lord let us just give you
praise for being so good that you are a
great God who knows how to give your
children good gifts and that you can
help us to stay on the path of pleasing
you and not ourselves be with us this
day and always force in Christ's name we
pray amen
now for the word of the Lord a Samaritan
woman came to draw water and Jesus said
to her give me a drink for his disciples
had gone to the city to buy food the
Samaritan woman said to him how is it
that you a Jew ask of me a woman of
Samaria for a drink Jews do not share
things in common with Samaritans jesus
answered her if you knew the gift of God
and who it is that is saying to you give
me a drink you would have asked him and
we would have given you living water the
woman said to him Sir you have no bucket
and the well is deep where do you get
that living water are you greater than
our ancestor Jacob who gave us the well
with his sons and flocks who drank from
it jesus said to her everyone who drinks
of this water will be thirsty again but
those who drink of the water that I will
give them will never be thirsty the
water that I will give them will be
coming them a spring of water gushing up
to eternal life the woman said to him
Sir give me this water that I may never
be thirsty or have keep coming here to
draw water jesus said to her go call
your husband and come back the woman
answered him I have no husband jesus
said to her you are right and saying I
have no husband for you have had five
husbands and the one you have now is not
your husband what you've said is true
and the woman said to him Sir I see that
you are a prophet our ancestors
worshiped on this mountain but you say
that the place where people must worship
is in Jerusalem jesus said to her woman
believe me
the hour is coming when you will worship
the father neither on this mountain nor
in Jerusalem you worship what you do not
know we worship what we know for the
salvation is from the Jews but the hour
is coming and is now here when the true
worshipers will worship the father in
spirit and in truth for the father seeks
such as these to worship Him God is
spirit and those who worship Him must
worship in spirit and in truth the woman
said to him I know that Messiah is
coming who is called Christ when he
comes he will proclaim all things to us
jesus said to her I am he the one who is
speaking to you the Word of God for the
people of God I like to share poem by
Bryant aji and it's entitled I see you
we look we use our eyes when we see we
use our hearts I see you I see you and
become blind to all else when I look at
your smile I see love when I look in
your eyes I see truth I see you I
haven't looked at beautiful things
beautiful faces but I see yours I don't
have to look to see you I see you right
now though my eyes are resting I've seen
you before the first time we met I knew
you in my heart I knew you but now I
found you and I won't lose you i love
you i see you how many of you know that
God sees us everything about us God sees
it he knows it our great times are
lonely times whatever we're going
through God sees it and he knows it I
remember how many of you know that
little I guess it's like a cartoon
where's waldo in the children's book you
might ever seen that and the parents and
the children have to search for this
little nerdy guy and a and a red and
white shirt and try to find him in the
midst of a crowd but I think that that's
a great depiction of every one of us a
world full of people yet we're longing
to be seen to stand out want to say to
you and fatica Lee every person matters
to God every person matters to God
because every person has intrinsic value
we were made in the image of God
according to nicole Johnson a blogger
she says have you ever felt invisible
that there are things that you do and it
seems as though no one notices or even
appreciates it your kids probably won't
thank you for making their lunch or take
him to school your spouse forgets to
thank you for the delicious meal that
you've prepared no one in the family
seems to notice how clean the house is
when they enter your friends take you
for granted for listening to their rents
for hours at a time and after a while
you begin to feel like you're going
about life unappreciated and unnoticed
even as your children get older you
become more invisible because the only
time that you seem to hear from them is
when they want something have you ever
felt invisible my friends in this story
today there's a woman in Samaria because
she sees herself as invisible Jesus is
going to Samaria to heal her situation
let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace but I know
all you have to do is say the word and I
shall be healed long enough to do your
work and to do your will hi this
preacher behind the cross that your
people might see me see you and not me
that they might hear you and not me let
the words of my mouth and the meditation
of my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer force
in Christ's name I pray amen I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
let's go to the well let's go to the
well when we go to the well there's
grace at the well for you and I
there's mercy there's love everything
that we need is that the well in this
text Jesus and His disciples have left
Judea and they're headed towards the
town of Galilee but to take the quickest
route they need to go through Samaria
but Jews didn't like to go through
Samaria did you saw the Sumerian
Samaritans as a half-breed one parent
was Jewish and one parent was a
foreigner and because of this they only
believe part of the Jewish religion and
so the the Jews believe that the
Samaritans were were unclean people
ultimately the Samaritans theology
differed greatly from author docks
Judaism the Samaritans accepted only the
penitent the first five books of the Old
Testament as inspired and authoritative
they rejected the Psalms the prophets
and the other books and therefore the
Jews wanted no part of them they would
take along the trip just to go around
Samaritan but they were not going to go
through it are you getting a picture of
what was happening in Jesus day but
Jesus and His disciples stopped at a
little town called sacar and they
stopped at a well that had been dug up
by Abraham's grandson Jacob Jesus was
tired and so he said by the well and his
disciples left them there as they went
in town to buy food I don't think that
Jesus was tired at all I think that
Jesus may have needed some rest but more
importantly he wanted to meet a woman
who saw herself as invisible imagine
with me if you will this woman was on
the outskirts of life she probably was
left out of many social gatherings like
parties of family get-togethers no one
paid her any attention and when she
spoke her opinion was discounted she was
isolated excluded for her non marital
status she was rejected simply because
of she was a woman in this text today we
don't even know the woman's name we
don't know her age but that doesn't seem
to matter but what's important is the
conversation that our Lord and Savior
had with this woman it's one of the
longest recorded one-on-one chats in
Scripture and therefore we need to give
it its proper do it was high noon the
heat of the day the disciples have gone
to get food as I've shared Jesus is at
the well and then this unnamed woman
appeared with the jar of clay in her
hands and Jesus made a simple request he
said will you give me a drink now let me
digress for a moment and give you some
more facts Jews weren't supposed to
speak to Samaritans men were not
permitted to address women without their
husbands rabbis had no business speaking
to shady woman such as this one and so
it bakes some questions how do you see
people who cross your path do you see
them as broken and fallen do you see
those in need as people to be fixed or
repaired
Jesus saw this woman and it was
undeniable that she needed grace and
forgiveness she was not invisible to
Jesus you are not invisible to Jesus in
so doing Jesus was willing to lay aside
all of these rules but it seems that the
woman was not for she says you are a Jew
and I'm a Samaritan how is it that
you're asking me for a drink you see she
was focused on the law and Jesus was
focused on grace it's why I love being
in United Methodist pastor weep we
practice a doctrine of grace I need
grace every day is there anybody else
who needs grace I was reading charles
swindoll and he can help us with the
definition of grace he says you may be
surprised to know that Jesus never used
the word itself he just taught it and
equally as important he lived it
furthermore the Bible never gives us a
one statement definition though grace
appears throughout its pages not only
the word itself but by numerous
demonstrations of it understanding what
grace means require us to go back to the
Hebrews understanding it meant to bend
down to stoop and by and by it came to
include the idea of unmerited favor
unmerited blessings you don't deserve it
I don't deserve it but God extends it to
us nonetheless Jesus makes a divine
offer that was difficult to refuse he
begins by saying if you knew the gift of
God if was an enticing invitation and a
gift was error
resistible especially the gift that came
through the grace of Jesus Christ the
Lord offered her living water not common
water that she would have to drink again
and again he offered her living water
and he got her attention but this polite
gutsy woman pointed out the obvious you
have nothing to draw with and the well
is deep where can you get this living
water she says her natural Korra
curiosity prompted her to ask these
questions but jesus knows how to handle
doubt and how to handle an unbeliever
how many of you know he's got all of our
numbers scripture says he knows that the
hair on our head it's numbered and don't
you say anything about the hairs on my
head he knows about the follicles right
he knows all about it but he knows our
number and Jesus is patient in this
story and he says you're talking about
h2o that water you'll drink and you'll
have to drink again and again but I'm
talking about living water and when you
taste the living water you'll never
thirst again in one sentence Jesus
shifted from everyday life to
everlasting life he's the master she
wanted whatever he was often offering
but she really wanted it only to avoid
having to go to the well again having to
to just bring up water and carry it she
thought that he could solve that issue
maybe there's another way but she was
eager to satisfy her physical Desai
desires while overlooking her spiritual
needs we do it all the time Rick Warren
comes to our aid and he says just like
you need physical food and physical for
physical strength
you need spiritual food for spiritual
strength the Bible describes itself as
our spiritual food our water our milk
our bread and our meat it's everything
that we need for sustenance to sustain
us through this life and then he gives
us this illustration if you were a
commander and an army you wouldn't send
your troops into battle without feeding
them for a month would you and we know
the answer to that we need strength in
order to fight and he says you're not
going to have much success and winning
the spiritual battles that your faith if
you're starving yourself that's why we
need to be fed by the Word of God Jesus
speaks truth and love and he gives us
spiritual food the food that she needs
to sustain her life the woman at the
well is by no means an angel this poor
woman from Samaritan has quite a
reputation she's been married five times
and the person she's wit noun is not her
husband but you see this story shows us
that Jesus was preparing a well of grace
and he was ready to refresh a soul that
had been parched by sin Jesus comes to
save the sick healed the lame opened the
eyes of the blind so that we can all see
and to deliver us from the depths of sin
but first there must be a confession
Romans 10 innate says if we believe in
our hearts and confess with our mouth
the Lord Jesus then we shall be saved so
Jesus gets to the heart of the matter go
and call your husband and then come back
it's not an odd question since men are
not supposed to be talking to women she
says I have no husband Jesus says you're
right
because you've had five and the one
you're with it's not your husband in
other words Jesus is saying thank you
for telling me the truth so what are you
going to do about it my friends that day
that woman had her sins washed away she
received grace from Jesus himself
cleansed and refresh spiritually
enlightened exhilarated illumined by
what Jesus had to say to her and here's
what I want you to know that woman went
out and told everybody with Christ
shared with her she told everybody that
she had met the Christ and scripture
says and that many were amazed and
whenever we see the word amazed in this
context it means that many became
believers in Christ maybe you need an
encounter with Christ today maybe it's
been a long time since you felt his
spirit are you thirsty does your soul
need to be refreshed do you need the
grace of God remember this story of this
woman it teaches us that in spite of our
bankrupt lives God comes to meet our
needs this story tells us that God
values he values us enough to seek us
story teaches us that God with God there
are no outcasts that God's love and
grace extends to Paul I want us to have
an opportunity
to talk with God I'm going to ask if
Alison would play something gently and
then Tyler I want you to turn my mic off
because I want to stand here if there's
anybody that would like to pray and want
me to pray with them i'll be happy to do
that but i want you to come and have a
little talk with jesus how many of you
know that just a little talk with jesus
makes it all right I don't know what you
need to tell them but our altar is made
ready for you and want you to come as
you feel led as the Holy Spirit begins
to move upon your life Daniel's going to
pray if you want me to pray with you
individually my mic is off and I'm
standing right here and be willing to
pray
you
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace but I know all you have to do
is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will father it's my prayer that you
would hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me that the words of my mouth and the
meditation of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen I want to challenge your thinking
this morning with the thought take the
Lenten journey take the Lenten journey
you know it's hard for us preachers
because we get the same set of
scriptures every year but the challenge
is to look for a new nuance to the tax
but the Lenten journey is a call for all
of us who are sinners saved by grace to
undergo sort of a a regular examination
of our own conscience and of our own
deeds times when we have been less than
loving times when we have been less
compassionate less forgiving less than
true followers of Jesus Christ in our in
our attempt to become better better
Christians or healthier and our
Christian walk we have to do this
examination that I'm talking about it's
only then that we think about arrogance
ego pride self-indulgence but we've got
a
flecked on these things if we want to
become better because these very things
that I'm just that I just spoke about
these can be the stumbling blocks to our
faith so it is fitting for us to take
the Lenten journey a journey to the road
of resurrection a journey to the
glorious road to Eastern while the
Linton season only comes once during the
church here it is symbolic of our souls
lifelong journey with God and God says
be holy be holy therefore I am wholly
that's a journey to being on that path
length is a time for us to acknowledge
our sinfulness my sinfulness your
sinfulness and to be cognizant of the
opportunities that God provides for
reconciliation when I think of this text
this morning I think about Christology
it's a theological word but it's a way
for us to talk about Jesus being fully
human and fully divine you will find as
you hear the message that Satan is
attacking Jesus with all sorts of
temptations but we know that the master
will win in the end but it's good for us
to take this journey because Jesus will
destroy the devil's power and he will
free all those who are held in slavery
and held by their fears Jesus can do at
Hebrews 2 verse 15 says and he will
deliver all those who through their fear
and death was subject to lifelong
slavery Jesus will defeat Satan and
become merciful and a faithful priest
and he will atone for our sins Hebrews 2
verse 17
therefore he had to be made like his
brothers in every respect so that he
might become a merciful and a faithful
high priests in the service of God to
make procreation for our sins when Jesus
defeats Satan he will be the one who
will truly be able to sympathize with
our weaknesses and our infirmities
listen Hebrews 4 verse 15 but we do not
have a high priest who was unable to
sympathize with our weaknesses but one
who in every respect has been tempted
and is yet without sin earlier when
sherry gave the lesson and she asked the
young people what is temptation and
little tabetha said it's when somebody
is trying to get you to do the wrong
thing you don't do it how old is tap it
anybody know 989 57 okay we're going to
give her seven all right that came from
a seven-year-old the dictionary says to
do or to have something that you know
that you shouldn't do or have so she's
pretty close i read i came across the
story says the gnome a 21st 2005 Andrew
Golota fought lamon brewster for the WBO
heavyweight boxing title galata had a
strong he was a strong fighter with a
powerful punch he had 35 wins five
losses but 31 of those wins were by
knockout in preparation for the fright
Brewster studied the tapes of galata and
he was looking for an opening and he
noticed that the way galata held his
hands it left him open for left hook
fight night came within seconds after
the round began Brewster found that
opening and he threw that left hook
galata went down but he got up Brewster
through another left hook and galata
went down again he stood up in the fight
resume Bruce Allah through another left
hook and that to that same opening
galata went down and this time he went
down for the count Bruce the won the
fight in the first round but how did he
do it he found his opponents weakness
why is this important for you this
morning Satan is looking to pound the
weak areas of our lives scripture says
he come to sift us like wheat to shake
us up and he's looking for an opening
and the question is will he find it
because when he finds it he'll hit us
with a nasty left hook anybody know what
I'm talking about I've heard it said
like this when you flee temptations just
be sure not to leave a forwarding
address amen Jesus departed from the
Jordan River and he was listen to this
he was led by the spirit into the
wilderness to be tempted by the devil
and I know some of you are saying well I
don't like going through the wilderness
but I want you to hear this he was led
by the spirit to be tempted by the devil
and so
as I was reading this text I said maybe
some of you don't like the word to be
tempted but how about to be challenged
because that's where our growth comes
from I know we don't like to be tempted
we don't like to go into the wilderness
we want what we want when we want it but
in order to grow as the people of God
challenge is going to come amen and God
is going to be the one sometimes who
will be right there when we're being
challenged to help grow us I rather grow
in the church be challenged and grow
than to grow old amen you just come to
church Sunday after Sonny you just
getting older but you're not growing
spiritually I rather grow spiritually I
hope I'm not the same Derek I was last
year amen that I'm growing as the spirit
is leading Jesus is led into the
wilderness the wilderness sometimes can
be a tough place because we don't have
creature comforts in the wilderness
wilderness can sometimes be a tough
place because you know just like in the
story you know before this text Jesus
baptism you remember when John points to
Jesus and says here is the Lamb of God
who takes away the sins of the world and
when he baptizes Jesus a dove descends
it's a beautiful story right and then
God speaks and says this is my beloved
son and whom I'm well pleased and
everyone around it earned it but now
he's in the wilderness we don't hear
that voice he's alone God is with him
but God is not speaking Jesus is by
himself and all of this is happening
before he begins his earthly ministry a
lie
because it is saying that in order for
us to grow we're going to have to go
through something amen we're going to
have to go through it whether we like it
or not I think the same God who created
the garden also created the wilderness
are you with me some of y'all quiet
maybe I've stepped on a few toes I don't
know but if I've stepped on your toes
next time move your feet amen in this
first temptation I think it's so time
did you see how Satan works is so crafty
I said Jesus had fasted for 40 days and
40 nights noticed that he didn't come on
the first day but after he felt Jesus
was weak that's when he came he couldn't
have come at a better time and fasting
is hard anybody ever fast before I've
done it for about six days and the first
day you know you say that prayer Lord
I'm going too fast so that I can get a
little closer to you and then you hear
that hunger pain in your stomach has it
happen to anybody else and your stomach
growl right at the same time you say
that you're going too fast you know it's
going to be a long six days well Jesus
fasted for 40 days and 40 nights I only
did it from sunup to sundown but here he
is he's hungry he's famished the
scripture says why don't he feed himself
while he miraculously turned the stones
into bread but let's listen to how Jesus
fought temptation Satan says turn these
stones and two loaves of bread in other
words use your power to satisfy your
physical need you're entitled to it
you've been fasting for 40 days and 40
nights but Jesus says no notice what he
does Deuteronomy 8 and three Jesus is
quoting scripture
he says man does not live by bread alone
but by every word that proceeds out of
the mouth of God rather than using his
miraculous powers to satisfy his own
needs Jesus souls that he will trust God
no matter what so my question is are we
trusting God no matter what some of our
friends some of us are dealing with
sicknesses heartaches financial
difficulty aging all sorts of issues but
are we trusting God no matter what
that's what Jesus did he's my model and
that's what he did in the second
temptation the devil takes Jesus to the
pinnacle of the temple and he says to
him jump but notice what he does Satan
is crafty he uses scripture Satan quotes
psalm 91 verse 11 and 12 that God would
command his angels to protect Jesus and
not even a stone would be dashed upon
his foot what do you do when you attempt
it Jesus used scripture Deuteronomy 6
verse 16 do not put the Lord your God to
the test and in that temptation he
defeated Jesus I was looking at this
particular one and I thought about my
natural father who was a real handsome
guy very built very smart can fix
anything but he had a taste for alcohol
and alcohol became a gateway to drugs
and we're so sad about the scene is you
cannot live your life doing that for the
better half of your life and expect your
body to function and the second or the
third phase of your life God has only
given us one body one we ought to take
care of that body but my father you know
when when you're young you think you're
invincible but he lived his whole life
like that thinking that he had nine
lives scripture says don't put your God
to the test do what you know is the
right thing to do Jesus sport temptation
by using scripture my grandmother would
ask me what's in your back pocket she
wasn't talking about my wallet she was
talking about Scripture what are you
feeding yourself with you see this is
essential whenever someone comes into my
office and they say pastor I got to talk
to you about what's going on in my life
the world is crashing and this is
happening to me you know the first thing
I asked them I said we're going to get
to that and I want to hear everything
that you have to say to me but my first
question is how are you feeding yourself
spiritually in other words how are you
getting through it if we're not feeding
ourselves spiritually then how do we get
through it that's what Jesus did quiet
when you go through a tough time how do
you get through it I hope you're reading
the word of god I hope you're studying
the Word of God scripture says study the
Word of God meditate on it day and night
study to show yourself approved a
workman that need not be ashamed but
rightly dividing the word of truth if
there's something in there God can use
it but the question is is there
something in there are you putting the
word deep down inside because if you are
then God can use it
temptation the devil takes him to a very
high mountain and he shows Jesus all of
the kingdoms of the world and they're
splendid and he promised him to give him
all of these things if Jesus were just
bow down and worship Him that's what
Satan does to all of us he says look at
the world what do you want you want a
car you want a house I'll give it to you
all it's going to cost you is this hey
I'll give it to you you'll just become a
workaholic but you'll have what you want
Jesus refutes it and says I'm to worship
God and God alone Jesus use scripture to
fight the schemes of the enemy this
Lenten journey is for us all but it's a
call for us who are saved by grace to do
sort of a regular examination on our own
selves our minds our hearts what are we
putting in there you know maybe this
little journey might be a time that when
you're driving the work maybe you'll
listen to something that would feed your
mind and feed your spirit with something
positive maybe it's the time to turn the
TV off and break open the Word of God
and let God feed your mind and heart
maybe it's a time to put some things
down and spend a little bit more time
with God God wants this time with us
there's a song by lon l harris and the
song says i miss my time with you
those moments together I need to be with
you each day but it hurts me when you
say you're too busy busy trying to serve
me but how can you serve me when your
spirits empty there's a longing in my
heart wanting more than just a part of
you God wants to redeem every aspect of
our lives not just this one hour today
but will you make a commitment to him
today to just get a little closer and I
think that for some of you who were able
to make it out on Wednesday night into
here Palin's message Reverend branscomb
he he gave us a beautiful message but he
left us with a challenge he talked about
joy not being the kind of joy that we
think about but joy in another sense
where the presence of God is Nehemiah 8
and 10 says the joy of the Lord is my
strength show me someone would join i'll
show you someone with strength show me
someone without joy and i'll show you
someone without strength let us pray
most gracious God we love you and we
thank you for loving us right back we
thank you for what Jesus did even in his
temptation before he started his earthly
ministry still leaving us with the
lesson to fight the enemy with the Word
of God to trust you for all things to
realize
the enemy can give us anything but
everything that we need and we desire
you have it now Lord open the windows of
heaven pour this congregation out of
blessing that they won't have room to
receive we pray it to be so in Jesus
name and all of God's people said amen
our second reading this morning comes
from the book of Matthew verses 17 I
mean chapter 17 verses 129 listen now
for the word of the Lord six days later
Jesus took with him Peter and James and
his brother John and led them on a high
mountain by themselves and he was
transfigured before them and his face
shone like the Sun and his clothes
became dazzling white suddenly there
appeared to them Moses and Elijah
talking with him then Peter said to
Jesus Lord it is good for us to be here
if you wish I will make three dwellings
here one for you one for Moses and one
for Elijah while he was still speaking
suddenly a bright cloud over shown them
and from the cloud a voice said this is
my son the beloved with him I am well
pleased listen to him when the disciples
heard this they fell to the ground and
were overcome with fear but Jesus came
and touched them and said get up do not
be afraid and when they looked up they
saw no one except Jesus himself alone as
they were coming down the mountain Jesus
ordered them tell no one about the
vision until after the Son of man has
been raised from the dead the Word of
God for the people of God
let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace a broken
vessel but I know you're all you have to
do is say the word and I shall be healed
long enough to do your work and to do
your will Lord hide this preacher behind
the cross that your people might see you
and not me that they might hear you and
not me let the words of my mouth and the
meditation of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen I want to challenge
with the thought this morning a
mountaintop experience a mountaintop
experience one evening an old Cherokee
Indian told his grandson about a battle
that goes on in every life he said my
son the battle is between two wolves and
they live inside of all of us one is
evil and one is good the evil wolf is
angry envious sorrowful regretful greedy
arrogant pitiful guilty resentful
inferior pride filled dominate and ego
filled the other wolf is good this good
wolf is joyful peaceful loving hopes
filled the good wolf possesses
tranquility serenity humility kindness
Vanel events empathy generosity truth to
include compassion and faith and the
grandson thought about it for a minute
and he asked his grandfather which wolf
wins the old Cherokee simply replied the
one you feed what's feeding your spirit
this morning
anxiety feeding your spirit was speeding
your spirit this morning the busyness of
life what's feeding your spirit this
morning are you challenge what's ever
speed in your spirit I hope you come
away with me today and as the song said
maybe to a quiet place where you really
hear the word of God maybe today you can
just pull away in your mind and have
just a quiet time even in the service
time of prayer a time to be refreshed
from the mundane you know the busyness
of life you get up in the morning you go
to work you come home you make a meal
you have your dinner you go to bed you
get back up in the morning anybody know
what I'm talking about and then if you
retired it might look a little different
but sometimes it's the same thing over
and over and over again how do you pull
away to be refreshed from that how do
you pull away so that you can hear God
in a greater way in this portion of text
that was read in your hearing Jesus had
a habit of pulling away getting away
even from ministry but getting away to
find quiet time with the father but this
time he's not alone this time he's
invited Peter James and John to to come
away with him Jesus wanted to reveal his
true nature to them he wanted them to
have an encounter with the Living God he
wanted
intentional to teach them how to pull
away from the busyness of life but more
than that he wanted that when they came
down from this mountaintop experience
that they might have a renewed sense of
faith and spiritual purpose my friends
we go up to the mountain not just to see
the mountains but so that we might gain
a greater view of the valley the valley
is where life is lived the valley is
where the action is the valley is where
it all happens but every now and then we
need to go to the mountain to pull away
do you want a new perspective on life
this morning then I pray that you two
would come away with me mountains have
always been wrapped up in a mystery and
often reported as places for powerful
personal encounters with God in Genesis
22 you will remember that Abraham for
example demonstrated his faith by taking
Isaac up into the mountain to sacrifice
him as he believed God told him and he
was about to do the unthinkable and at
that critical moment God came through
for him Exodus 20 Moses received the Ten
Commandments on a mountain so
significant was his mountaintop
experience with God that when he came
down his face radiates the glory of
God's presence and first Kings chapter
18 Elijah met God on Mount Carmel and
call down a fiery victory over hundreds
of false prophets mountains are often
reported as places for powerful personal
encounters with God when I think of
mountaintop experiences I think of the
day when I was 19 years old and I gave
my life to the Lord that was a
mountaintop experience for me I think
of a mountaintop experiences when
Natalya said yes and became my wife she
may have been desires and saying no but
she said yes I think a mountaintop
experiences when my son was born he was
a seven-year prayer and I was beside
myself in the hospital and it was
amazing day but a spiritual mountaintop
experience it involves your mind you
learn something new about who God is and
I hope that happens for you today a
spiritual mountaintop experience
involves your emotions you feel
something and then you have this greater
sense of awareness of God's presence and
your life his nearness you think about
how great he is how close he is how
really is and we think about our need
for him a spiritual mountaintop
experience involves your will you see
when God shows up in a dramatic powerful
way the experience or to teach you
something we ought to come down from
that mountaintop experience different we
ought to come down from that mountaintop
experience so impacted not only by what
we know and what we feel about what we
do you see in this
sure Jesus invite Peter James and John
to go to the mountaintop with him and
they're going to have a mountaintop
experience that would top all
mountaintop experience in the scripture
says he brought them up to the mountain
and as he begins to pray he was
transfigured the word transfigured
literally means metamorphose he was
changed right in front of them now I
have to use my imagination I wasn't
there but I imagined that when I was
looking at the scripture and it said
that he was changed wait in front of
them his face shone like the Sun and
this light illuminated from his body now
I don't know about you but this
supernatural experience would have
scared the life out of me I think I
would have been running back down that
hill but the disciples are there and
they're looking at this and its face
shone like the Sun they said light was
illuminating from him and you're saying
it's this real you're wondering if it's
real but you know it's real and it's
happening right in front of you
Episcopal priests Nick nicely he says
there's a
difference between transfiguration and
transformation he says transformation
implies are we making of the nature of a
person or an object Transfiguration
implies a revelation of the true nature
so Jesus didn't go up to the mountain
and and was like a caterpillar he laid
on the ground and he went into a cocoon
and he came out as a butterfly with
light and is beautiful we can talk about
that at resurrection that's what
happened at resurrection but that's not
what happened on this day what happened
here is that the true essence of Jesus
is revealed he is the Godhead God the
Father and God the somebody went to
Sunday School look at that this is
what's revealed and now we know all of
these names that we recall Jesus he's
Lord of lords and King of Kings he's
Elohim he's our cornerstone he's our
great hope bread of life bread of heaven
all of these names that we saw it right
before them it was like he took this
veil off of his humanity and his majesty
and glory was revealed to the disciples
only place in the Bible where Jesus
reveals himself now this story of the
Transfiguration is an all four gospel
it's the only time in his life that he
revealed himself in this way that you
got to see his glory his majesty I don't
know about you but I know it would have
been thrilling and scary all at the same
time the scripture says
his face shone like the Sun his clothes
became dazzling white I mean they didn't
have tied back then you know didn't have
all these detergents but it said that
his clothes became dazzling white you
see this wasn't on the outside but it
emanated from the inside it's amazing
thing for a brief moment the veil of his
humanity was lifted in the essence of
who he really is showed its unmistakable
who Jesus is some of you might say he's
a liar he's a lunatic Jesus is off his
rocker this scripture says he is the son
of God he is the son of God he is a part
of the Godhead God the Father God the
Son and God the Holy Spirit and then
they saw the prophets Elijah and Moses
talking to him I imagine that they were
amazed to see Elijah and Moses Elijah
was a symbol of the prophets he had a
mountaintop experience on Mount Horeb
Moses was a symbol of the law he had a
mountaintop experience on Mount Sinai
but scholars think that the location of
the Transfiguration was on Mount Hermon
nine thousand two hundred feet above sea
level Jesus is the promised Messiah he
is the fulfillment of the law in the
prophets Jesus is greater than both and
what I really love about the scripture
is is Peter once
do something Peter's like Oh Lord this
is awesome you know maybe I'll built an
altar one to you and 12 you know he just
wanted to do something anybody like to
do something sometimes God is not moving
and you just want to jump in here and
help God out but I love what the
scripture says while he was still
talking he was he was overcome because
it was overshadowed by a cloud this is
the Shekinah glory of God which is was
the visible sign of God's power and
presidents in Exodus 13 a child had led
the children of Israel into the
wilderness in Exodus 4035 the cloud had
covered the tabernacle when it was
finished in first Kings eight and ten
the cloud had filled the temple of
solomon when it was completed in ezekiel
1122 it was the same cloud of glory that
ezekiel watched a part because of
Israel's unfaithfulness the cloud was a
symbol of God's power and presence and
then a voice said listen this is my son
this is my boy listen to him listen to
what he tells you this is my son in whom
I'm well pleased you remember this at
Jesus baptism when God validated who he
was in God
us to understand that Jesus would
replace the law and the prophets and
this would be God's plan for our
salvation either Jesus is who he says he
is or he's not I believe he is who he
says he is the father validates that He
is God commands everyone to listen to
Jesus so my question for us this morning
are we listening whose voice are we
listening to their many voices out there
but whose voice are you listening to
I'll close with this Colossians 3 verses
1 through 4 i'm going to read it in two
versions because i want you to hear it
and not miss it so if you've been raised
with Christ seek the things that are
above where Christ is seated at the
right hand of God set your minds on
things above not on things that are on
the earth for you have died and your
life is hidden with Christ in God when
Christ who's your life is revealed then
you also will be revealed in him here's
how Eugene Peterson and the message says
it he is your life so if you're serious
about living this new resurrected life
with Christ act like it pursue the
things over which Christ presides don't
shuffle along eyes to the ground
absorbed with things right in front of
you look up be alert to what's going on
around you to where the action is see
things from God's perspective your old
life is dead your new life which is your
real life may be invisible to spectators
but it's not to god he is your life
when Christ shows up again on this earth
you'll show up to the real you the glory
issue meanwhile be content with
obscurity like Christ Jesus didn't go to
the mountain just a retreat for the
purpose of just getting away and staying
away but he wanted the disciples to have
a an experience that would change their
lives forever he wanted them to come
back with a renewed sense of faith in
spiritual purpose my friends is not
about us getting to the mountain we get
a good view of the valley from the
mountain but the real question is how we
going to live when we come down maybe
this church is a mountaintop experience
how we're going to live when we walk
outside these doors we want to show the
love of christ are we going to let a
broken world know that God can save and
God can heal that God has all power I
hope so Daniel would you come and lead
us in a prayer
it's for prayer
god of many forms as we gather before
you hoping to be transformed by your
healing message help us to the b2b the
disciples you call us to be our days on
this earth are short and but a breath
but you are everlasting your light has
shone in times where darkness has
blinded us and has hidden the path of
righteousness from us as the disciples
eyes were open and they saw the light
they carried your message of love
throughout their land give us the
courage to do the same to take this
mountaintop experience down into the
valleys of shadow where we live and
where you call us to be our world is
filled with these opportunities to share
your gospel of love and to share your
gospel of everlasting persistent
presence but we need you to be our rock
in which we can take shelter that which
we can return to to fill our cup that we
may fill the cups of others who are
empty God be a rock in us that we can
always count on your unwavering
persistent presence in our lives God we
try and we train to be your disciples
give us the courage that the Lord's
Prayer instills in us and that we unite
in one voice insane our Father who art
in heaven hallowed be thy name thy
kingdom come Thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven give us this day our
daily bread then forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation
but deliver us from evil for thine is
the kingdom and the power and the glory
forever amen
our scripture reading this morning comes
from Paul's letter to the Corinthians
chapter three verses 1 through 11 listen
now for the word of the Lord and so
brothers and sisters I could not speak
to you as a spiritual people but rather
as people of flesh as infants in Christ
I fed you with milk not saw and not
solid food because you are not ready for
solid food even now you are still not
ready because you are still of the flesh
for as long as there is jealousy and
quarreling among you you are not of the
flesh and having accordance to human
inclinations for when one says I belong
to Paul and the other says I belong to
Apollo's are you not merely human what
then is Apollo's what then is Paul
servants through whom you came to
believe as the Lord assigned to each I
planted Apollo's watered but God gave
growth so neither the one who plants nor
the one who waters is anything but only
God who gives the growth the one who
plants in the one who waters have a
common purpose and each will receive
wages according to the labor of each for
we are God's servants working together
you are God's field God's building
according to the grace of God given to
me like a skilled master builder I laid
a foundation that someone else is
building upon it each builder must
choose with care on how to build it for
no one can lay any foundation other than
the one that has already been laid that
foundation is Jesus Christ the Word of
God for the people of God
let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed too
long enough to do your work and to do
your will hide this creature behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth the
meditations of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen I want to
challenge your thinking with the thought
standing on a firm foundation standing
on a firm foundation and I'd like to
read another piece of scripture in your
hearing Matthew 7 verses 24 through 27
everyone then who hears these words of
mine and does them will be like a wise
man who built his house on the rock and
the rains fell and the floods came and
the winds blew and beat upon the house
but it did not fall because it was
founded on Iraq and everyone who hear
these words of mine and does not do them
they will be like a foolish man who
built his house on the sand and the
rains fell and the floods came and the
winds blew and it beat up against this
house and it fell may the lord had a
rich blessing to the reading the hearing
of God's Holy Word made sink deep down
and bring forth much fruit the word of
God for the people of God in my
preparation for the sermon I came across
this bit of information that I hope is
meaningful for you it was talking about
the Leaning Tower of Pisa in Italy and
it said that it's going to fall
eventually scientists travel to the town
of Pisa every year to measure the
building slow descent they report that
this 179 foot tower which was built in
1173 moves about one-twentieth of an
inch a year and is now 17 feet out of
alignment recent
renovations may have saved the 810 year
old tower and probably prevented it from
its eventual collapse but here's the
thing the word Pisa means marshland that
may give you a little idea of why this
tower is leaning to begin with but I
also found that what was interesting is
when they began to build the tower they
only dug 10 feet down problematic isn't
it a hundred and seventy nine foot tower
but they only dug ten feet down and the
problem is it's leaning because it was
built on a faulty foundation Tyler can
you show my image for me
look at this house
it's leaning so my question for you this
morning is have we built our house our
hopes our dreams on a faulty foundation
well what is the faulty foundation
Reverend I'm so glad you asked what if
we built our foundation even on our own
will our own power our own understanding
remember it is proverbs 3 verse 5 and 7
that says trust in the Lord with all the
heart and lean not unto thine own
understanding but in all thy ways
acknowledge him and he shall direct our
paths have we built our house our hopes
our dreams on a faulty foundation thank
God for our boy scouts are Cub Scouts
the Boy Scout Oath says it like this on
my honor I will do my best to do my duty
to who to God and to my country and to
obey the Scout Lord to help other people
at all times to keep myself physically
strong mentally awake and morally
straight I saw some of the mouths moving
so I know that you have practiced this
but the Boy Scouts have chosen to build
their house on the right foundation it
says to do my duty to God first amen
this story two men one smart one foolish
set out one day to build their house for
themselves and after searching for some
time the smart builder found a clear
spot on a solid rock he built his house
on this stone it took a long time to
complete it but when he finished the man
knew that his home was strong and it
could
keep his family safe on the most
powerful winds in the heaviest rain but
likewise the foolish man found a nice
spot for his house too but it was on a
sandy beach building on the soft sand
was very easy it didn't take very long
he finished long before the smart
builder he was happy that he had such a
nice view of the sea from the house one
day a big storm came they batted the two
houses the rains fell the winds blew and
the water rose and the floods came can I
tell you what happened however the smart
builder who built his house on the rock
his house didn't move an inch but the
house of the foolish builder it cracked
it crumbled and it fell down Jesus says
that if you hear the teachings my
teachings and you obey them you are like
the smart builder who built his house
upon a rock but if you hear his
teachings and you don't obey them we're
like the foolish builder who built his
house on the sand we can take our cue
from our Boy Scouts they said is their
duty is to God in country and as I was
reading about this it says your family
and your religious leaders teach you to
know and to serve God by following these
teachings as you do them obey God first
men and women of the paths of work to
make this promise true and
rate in the scriptures today we know
that jesus is our rock and if we listen
to his teachings and try our best to
follow them he's the one who will keep
us safe which builder are you have you
built your foundation your hopes your
dreams on the rock or on the sand let's
be real it isn't always easy to do what
the Lord wants us to do sometimes it
seems easier to do things our own way
but in the end how many of you know it's
always better to obey God which builder
are you how many of you know that father
knows best any of you know that father
knows best I'm talking about the
Heavenly Father while there are some
similarities to this story there are
some major differences between the two
give me your ear for just a moment one
man built his house on the sand and
didn't take him very long in his
preparation he found a good location he
began to build but San is unstable ever
changing always moving San offers no
stability it's not a good place to build
a house is not a good place because it
doesn't provide a firm foundation in
this context building on the sand speaks
of people who hear the gospel but
instead of believing the gospel and
coming to faith in Jesus they believe
that they can build their lives on
shifting sands of human philosophy on
human wisdom and on human opinion
problem is they're driven by faith in
themselves rather than faith in the Lord
people who built on the sand they hear
the gospel but they choose to save
themselves they hear the gospel believe
in his general message but they choose
to follow they choose to follow it on
their own terms to them his word is open
to interpretation and you know that
can't be true if he commands them to do
something they do it if they choose to
do it but if they don't like it they
won't do it they build their house their
lives on self will self fulfillment
self-sufficiency self satisfaction and
self-righteousness Mandy Hill agrees
with them she says it's not selfish to
love yourself to care for yourself to
make yourself happy she says it's a
priority I think that's building our
house on the sand Paul describes it kind
of like this in 2nd Timothy versus 325
he says it's having a form of godliness
but denying the power thereof people who
build their houses on the sand they do
it because it's easy it requires no real
effort just a little change here a
little change there but they fool
themselves and everyone around them to
thinking that they are right with the
Lord life built on the sand requires no
real commitment no real faith people who
bill
the sand believe that they can pray a
prayer sign a card join a church and all
will be well as though having faith is
like a light switch you can flick it on
and off when you want it how many of you
know that's not how it works if we're
going to serve God it's going to cost us
something amen it's going to cost us
some time and some some energy some
sweat equity if you will but then
there's the man who built his house on
the rock he dug deep he dubbed until he
reached the bedrock and then he began to
build his house on this solid rock the
rock did not move it was unchangeable
and stable the rock offered a good
foundation you see building on the rock
speaks of people who hear the gospel and
they believe it to the point that their
stake their lives on it I'm reminded of
Matthew 16 verses 16 through 18 Jesus
says who do men say I am some say you
were prophet some say you are Elijah and
Simon Peter answered and said thou art
the Christ the Son of the Living God and
Jesus said unto Him blessed are thou
Simon bar Jonah for flesh and blood have
not revealed this unto you but my father
which is in heaven and I also say this
unto you that thou art Peter and upon
this rock I will build my church in the
gates of Hell shall not prevail against
it Peter Petros the rock it refer
to faith in the gospel you see rock
builders understand that Jesus alone has
the power to save their souls Rock
builders hear that his word and conform
their lives to it Rock builders hear the
Bible and they hear what Jesus has to
say and they trust it and they believe
that John 14 and six says that Jesus is
the way the truth and the life no one
comes to the Father except by him they
hear it and believe it Rock builders
hear John 3 CH 16 for God so loved the
world that He that whosoever should not
but have what should have what rockville
does hear that message they believe it
and they staked their lives on it
Matthew 1128 says come unto me all who
labor and are heavy laden and I will
give you rest they hear it they trust it
the Boy Scouts understand these concepts
because they staked their lives on it is
God verse and the scouts are what
trustworthy loyal helpful
[Music]
you know I had to put them too
right great job listen to the song Rock
of Ages Rock of Ages cleft for me let me
hide myself in thee let the waters in
thy blood from thy wounded side which
flow be of sin the double cure save from
RAF and make me pure not the labor of my
hands can fulfil the laws demands could
my zeal no respite no could my tears
forever flow all for sin could not atone
thou must save and thou alone nothing in
my hand I bring simply to the cross a
key to the cross I cling naked come to
thee for dress helpless look to thee for
grace FAL I the fountain fly wash me
Savior or I will die while I draw this
pleading breath when my eyes shall close
and death when I rise to Worlds unknown
and behold thee on thy throne Rock of
Ages cleft for me let me hide myself in
thee listen to my hope is built on
nothing less than Jesus blood and
righteousness I dare not trust the
sweetest frame but wholly lean on Jesus
name on Christ the solid rock I stand
all other ground is sinking sand when
darkness veils his lovely face I rest on
his unchanging grace and every high in
stormy Gale my anchor holds within the
veil on Christ the solid rock I stand
all other ground is sinking sand his old
his covenant his blood supports me in
the whelming flood when all around my
soul gives way he then is all my hope
instead
a on Christ the solid rock I stand all
other ground is sinking sand when he
shall come with trumpet sound Oh may I
then in him be found dressed in his
righteousness alone faultless to stand
before that throne on Christ the solid
rock I stand all other ground is sinking
sand all other ground is sinking stand
my friends if you trust him the day if
you put your faith in him you're putting
your faith in a rock that is unmovable
God can keep you God can bless your mutt
your life and make it into something
that you didn't even think it could be
my friends I know what it's like to be
on shifting sand the trust in myself to
believe in myself but proverbs 3 verse 5
and 7 says trust in the Lord with all
your heart lean not unto your own
understanding but in all your ways
acknowledge him and he shall direct your
path this morning I want you to trust
him I want you to trust them beyond what
you can see I want you to put your faith
in a rock and my friends he'll keep you
even when you don't want to be kept
Daniel would you come and lead us in a
prayer before we play I would like all
the young people that we have talked
about Scouts our youth to please stand
Church look around you
these young people are active in the
community and they acknowledge their
faith here in Christ and I would like us
to pray and I would like you all to
remain standing that we may pray for you
so let us bow our heads in prayer dear
God of love today in the midst of chaos
we gather to celebrate your activity in
the world through these young people
Lord we gather to pray over these people
that they may trust you and allow you to
move in their lives our world is broken
and in pain and looking for answers that
humanity cannot provide these young
people will venture out to grow in your
word and grow closer to you and each
other through as brothers and sisters we
take pride that these young people trust
in you and put their faith in you first
that we your people should be so bold to
do that as well today we turn to these
young people that they might lead us and
our growth in you as we gather in your
house and unity with them we praise you
that these young people have chosen your
will in their life we gather here to
support them today we cast aside our
inward focus cells and shift ourselves
back to you we are your people and these
young people remind us that we are to
follow your call in our lives and may it
be so through the love of Jesus Christ
that we may pick up our cross and follow
these young people forevermore and as
disciples of Christ let us join in unity
together in the Lord's Prayer saying our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come Thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom and the power and
the glory forever
I hope that we're also challenged and
also provoked by it hear the word of God
are reading this morning comes from
Matthew 5 verses 13 to 20 listen now for
the word of the Lord you are the salt of
the earth but if the salt has lost its
taste how can its saltiness be restored
it is no longer good for anything but
it's thrown out and trampled on
underfoot you are the light of the world
a city built on a hill that cannot be
hid no one after lighting a lamp puts it
under the bushel basket but on the lamp
stand and it gives light to all the
house in the same way let your light
shine before others so that they may see
your good works and give glory to your
father who is in heaven do not think I
have come to abolish the law or the
prophets I come not to abolish but to
fulfill for truly I tell you until
heaven and earth pass away not one
letter not one stroke of a letter will
pass from the law until all is
accomplished therefore whoever breaks
one of the least of these Commandments
and teaches other to do the same will be
called the least in the kingdom of
heaven but whoever does them and teaches
them will be called great in the kingdom
of heaven for I tell you unless your
righteousness exceeds that of the
scribes and Pharisees you will never
enter the kingdom of heaven the word of
God for the people of God thanks be to
God let us pray most gracious God I am a
sinner saved by your grace a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will hi this preacher behind the cross
that your people might see you and not
me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditation of
my heart be acceptable and thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer force
in Christ's name we pray amen I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought be more salty be more
salty charles james cook in his
commentary on the same very passage says
that Jesus encourages followers to bring
light to a dock and broken world the
light is the light of the word of God
and it draws all people to its warmth in
its radiance arch bishop william temple
is often quoted as saying the church is
the only organization on earth that
exists for those who are not members we
ought to take the word of god into the
darkest places of the world Greg
Rochelle the pastor of Life Church a
megachurch said that before he became a
pastor he worked for a security company
putting in security systems and one of
the jobs that they had was to work for
polo and he came back home and he says
to his wife I can't work there this
place is too dark people address
scandalous they're dead all manner of
things is going on there this is not a
part of my lifestyle so I can't go and
his wife Amy says honey you you think
that maybe God sent you there to be a
light for those people who need a light
oh yeah he said maybe that's why God
sent me to go there and he said and he
went back in a year's time he was able
to
lead 10 people to the Lord and he says
now whenever I'm in a dark place I just
shined the light that's what we're
supposed to do it shine the light here
are two facts that I want you to hear
this morning Jesus says you are the salt
of the earth you are the light other
world notice he didn't say go and be
alight go and be scum salt so ready in
US he says you are the salt you are the
light its innocence we just need to
trust God for it and go and do this very
work that he's called us to be when we
think about salt salt had many uses it
can be to preserve it can be to make
things that were bland taste a little
better it was also an antiseptic it was
also used as a fertilizer but more than
anything it was highly valued in the
days of Rome soldiers were sometimes
paid and salt therefore we get that term
he's worth his salt and also sometimes
when there's a quality of goodness and
someone we say that they are the salt of
the earth and essence salt has value it
was valuable and so when Jesus says you
are the salt of the earth he's saying
therefore go out and season the world
be the salt you are salt a young
salesman was disappointed about losing a
big sale and as he was talking to his
manager and lamenting he says you can
lead a horse to the water but you can't
make them drink and his manager says son
here's a lesson it's not your job to get
them to drink it's your job to create
thirst who in your life created thirst
for you when I think I'm going to take
this off because it's making a lot of
noise and more of a disturbance and I'll
use a handheld
who in your life created thirst for you
made you want to to be a stronger
Christian you saw something in them and
you wanted to model it who in your life
did that for you well let me introduce
you to my grandma Thelma my grandmother
wasn't a perfect person but she sure
wanted to get the gospel right she
understood this concept that Jesus is
talking about about being salt because
she created thurs she didn't have a lot
she lived in a nice house but it was in
a really rough neighborhood but somehow
even the the women in the neighborhood
called her mama because she made time to
listen to their stories she made time to
pray with people and what she had she
was willing to share with someone else
just so that they would have I remember
my grandmother having a couple ladies
from the community and teaching them how
to do their own vegetable garden and
then some ladies will come and pick from
her garden this neighborhood that she
was in let me say to you it was a
dangerous neighborhood but she could
walk around that neighborhood untouched
because they knew her as mama are you
creating
by the way that you live your life when
people see you come off the church are
they desiring what you have are they
looking at you and saying Betty you seem
to be going through a lot but you always
got a smile on your face how come how is
it that you have a smile on your face in
the midst of troubles Charlie I know
that you you moved over to the virginian
you left your house but you always have
a pleasant demeanor about you why is
that see we're not supposed to lead them
to drink God can do that we just need to
create thirst are you creating thirst
wherever you go that when people look at
you they see something different and
they desire it when I think of all the
uses of salt back in Jesus day I think
the one that he's really talking about
is zest and flavor that we're supposed
to go out and sprinkle the world we're
supposed to point them back to a life
with Christ in other words our
lifestyles shalleg zood flavor that it
creates this hunger and thirst somehow
we have been called to penetrate society
our neighborhoods our towns our schools
wherever we go because we are the salt
of the earth we are the light of the
world Jesus says
you are the light of the world sometimes
we get disturbed when we hear people say
that you are the light of the world
because we look at our world and we say
man the world is so broken and they're
saying that we're the light of the world
but what is actually saying is the world
is not the light you are the light so
whatever situation that you can come up
with and you say man we're living in a
dark place but you are the light and
some people say well well I'm only one
person I can't change the world you are
the salt you are the light that's what
the scripture says so when we start
complaining you know what I think God is
saying what are you prepared to do about
it whatever complaint we might have
about the world God says what are you
willing to do because everything that we
need in order to make a difference we
have it he didn't say go and become he
says you are choir you are the light of
the world amen he didn't say go and
become a light you are the light why
would we take our light and hide it hide
it under a bushel I was in the church
one time and a young lady was given a
testimony and you know different people
started giving their testimonies and and
it was nice but here's what she said she
says I want to thank God for my life my
health and my strength and that sound
good but then she made this statement
she was going right and then she took a
nasty left she says I'm so glad to be a
Christian but I don't want to be around
anybody who's not a Christian even
family members I don't want to be around
them because we're not like minded how
are they supposed to see the light think
about it family members that you have
that are in darkness because they don't
know who Jesus Christ is how are they
supposed to see the light if you hide it
somebody's got to be concerned about the
the loss that's our job and sometimes we
behave the same way this young lady
behave I don't want to be around anybody
who's not Christians remember the story
I told you earlier about Greg Rochelle
and saying that he didn't want to go and
do this job at polo but if he had not
gone those 10 people that he led to the
Lord would not know Jesus Christ as Lord
and Savior Jesus says that you're a city
on the hill you're the light of the
world a city on the hill not thought
about this he's basically saying I put
you in a position so that you would have
high visibility that people would see
you see something about you and he would
be able to point them back to me what do
we do in the dark times we are the shine
the light you are the light you are the
light of the world no one takes a light
and put it under a basket but rather
they put it on a lampstand lastly he
said
this let your light shine before men in
such a way that they might see your good
works and glorify your father which is
in heaven it's not a suggestion it's a
command let your light shine shine the
light let your light shine shine the
light he's not asking us he's telling us
you want to make a difference in the
world let your light shine would you
know about the Lord share it with
somebody else it can be food and meat
for another person let your light shine
you see someone that's suffering be the
one to go to that somebody's hungry just
in part something that you have to make
a difference and others be the light you
are the light and as we pray I want you
to be thinking about that what more can
I do to be salty
your Creator God today we are confronted
with many things that make us question
who we are who we are as people as
humans and as your beloved children you
have created us to be distinguished
persevering and enduring but our world
today exhausts us with its focus on war
hate and anger how are we to exist and
provide light to one another when our
brothers and sisters wish to blow it out
God we are coming to your table to
witness and experience your grace found
in the body and blood of Jesus Christ
but we still feel helpless we still feel
empty Lord send down your Holy Spirit to
be refreshing to us and to make us once
again to be the salt of the earth there
are so many people that need to hear and
experience your love send down your Holy
Spirit to reinvigorate the Christian
love in our hearts that we might
transcend the divisions of hate that
human beings have created help us and
remind ourselves that when we pray the
Lord's Prayer we are praying that your
will be done on earth not our own your
son Jesus Christ reminded us to love our
neighbors as ourselves give us the
courage love and life to do so
reinvigorate us to tear down the walls
that divide us that we might be agents
of change in our world by the grace you
provide us at the table in Jesus name
Amen
you
chapter 16 verses 9 through 15 during
the night
Paul had a vision there stood a man of
Macedonia pleading with him and saying
come over to Macedonia and help us when
he had seen the vision we immediately
tried to cross over to Macedonia being
convinced that God had called us to
proclaim the good news to them we set
sail from troughs to a straight course
to Samothrace the following day to
Neapolis and from there to Philippi
which is the leading city of the
district of Macedonia and a Roman colony
we remained in the city for some days
and on the Sabbath day we went outside
the gate by the river
where we supposed that there was a place
of prayer and we sat down and spoke to
the woman who had gathered them a
certain woman named Lydia a worshipper
of God was listening to us and she was
from the city of Thyatira a dealer in
purple cloth the Lord opened her heart
to listen eagerly to what was said by
Paul and when she and her household were
baptized she urged us saying if you have
judged me to be faithful to the Lord
come and stay at my house and she
prevailed upon us
may the Lord add a rich blessing to the
reading the hearing of God's Holy Word
made sing deep down and bring forth much
fruit the Word of God for the people of
God
please stand if you're able and open
your hymnals to page 605 wash Oh God our
sons and daughters
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you may be seated let us pray
most gracious God I am a sinner saved by
your grace and grateful for the gift of
salvation but I'm still a broken vessel
but I know all you have to do is say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and to do your will hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength in my Redeemer
Fortson Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought the Macedonian
call the Macedonian call your implicit
question might be well what is the
Macedonian call it was a call to help
those in need but it was a call to go it
was a call to go let me hear you say the
word go remember what Jesus said he says
therefore go and make disciples of all
nations baptizing them in the name of
the Father and the son and teaching them
everything that I've commanded you and
lo I will be with you always even unto
the ends of the age so the Greek they
have two words ecclesia which is church
and ekklesia which is the church going
out we're good with the word church but
we're not so good with the church going
out but that's what we need to hear in
this text and this is what the
Macedonian call
it was for Paul Silas and Timothy to go
Bill Hybels
shares a concept and his concept he
calls do versus done and he says that
it's in his book called becoming a
contagious Christian and he says it's a
good way to distinguish Christianity
from religion he says when I think of it
I think of the analogy of do versus done
and it kind of goes like this it's the
difference between Christianity and
religion
he says religion is not about a bunch of
do's and don't but that's what religion
thinks it is religion is about what we
can do for God to be good enough in
order to get into heaven and he says
what if that's your thinking here's the
problem how do you know that you've done
enough he says it's like the salesperson
who has a quota but no one has told the
salesperson what the quota is how do you
know that you hit the mark if you don't
know what the quota is but Christianity
is about a relationship with God and
it's clearly about what God has done for
us he did what we could not have done
for ourselves he'd live the perfect life
before men women and children he died on
the cross but he was the perfect
sacrifice he did for us what we could
not do for ourselves we could never be
the perfect
precise and emphatically religion is
what humanity does for God
Christianity is what God has done for
humanity do you see the difference are
you with me this morning I just want to
know if you're alive in here but the
Apostle Paul would tell us that to
become a real Christian is to humbly
receive God's gift of forgiveness and to
commit our way to him and when we do
this we become adopted sons and
daughters and the Holy Spirit will come
upon our lives and teach us how to live
from God how to live for God but he says
it's a way of the Holy Spirit
teaching us how to live from the inside
out
and that's how Paul lived his life from
the inside out there was an inward
change and because of that change he was
sold out for Christ determined to live
for him are you sold out for Christ this
morning are you determined to live for
him from the inside out I heard a few
grumblings over here but I didn't hear
anything are you determined to live for
God from the inside out anybody all
right I feel like you know I'm with my
Marines now but this Macedonian call it
was a call for Paul for Silas to go out
you know as is interesting
sometimes we just don't want to do that
but what I love about the scripture it
says that Paul received this vision and
in this vision there was a man calling
for them asking for their help they
wanted to hear the gospel they wanted to
hear the good news
and Paul woke up from this dream this
vision and immediately they set out to
go and what's so beautiful about this is
that they were willing to let the Holy
Spirit be their guide too often we
become so independent that we don't say
it with our mouths but we behave as
though we don't really need God it's
almost as if we're saying now we're not
seeing it with our mouths but with our
body language with the way that we
behave it's like we were holding God
back and we're saying I got this don't
worry God I'm good I got this
and nothing can be further from the
truth we need him amen
we need God in our lives and what I love
about this tax is that Paul decided to
listen to the spirit and to do something
different now what you may not know is
that Paul had a plan and they probably
talked about it and his plan was to go
back to the churches in Galatia to
strengthen them to encourage these
churches and maybe to reach some of the
unchurched it sound like a good plan but
the question is whether it was God's
plan or not and what it says it says
that Paul and his companion had plans
already to go west but that they were
kept by the Holy Spirit from preaching
the word in the province of Asia now
how many of you ever heard this
statement if you want to make God laugh
just tell him your what tell him your
plans how many of you you said well you
know what I'm gonna do this and I'm
gonna do that and it didn't work out
that way anybody know what I'm talking
about
and it's almost as if God is laughing at
us but what I love about the Apostle
Paul he's a great example and we don't
even hear any discussion we don't hear
Paul saying but lord I got my own plans
what will Lord hold on we put a plan
together we'll get to your plan after we
do our plan but we wanted to go and to
get we don't hear any of that Paul got
up and immediately began to do the
Lord's bidding
are you seeking God's guidance and
direction for this stage in your journey
and what happens to us as the body of
Christ when one door closes sometimes we
get bent out of shape we go for a job we
apply for a job we we thought we did
well in the interview and we don't get
the job and you know we are upset
sometimes we have health challenges and
we're saying to ourselves why me anybody
ever done it at least I'm honest but how
do we respond when a door closes I think
of Moses and Moses you know God sets him
up and says I want you to look into the
Promised Land but you're not going to
cross over but I want you to go ahead
and take a look
I imagine that Moses said Lord let me
just go over take off my sandals and
walk around on the blades of grass and
God said no most come on God all the
stuff I've done you saying no no I think
about
the Apostle Paul in Scripture says he
had this thorn in his flesh we don't
know what it is but it annoyed him
scripture says three times he asked God
to take it away and God said no my grace
is sufficient for you and I think of
even Jesus thirty-three years old he
knows what's about to happen to him and
Jesus says it this way if this cup could
pass from me what was he saying in that
in that moment is there another way he
says if this cup could pass for me and
then he finishes the sentence but
nevertheless not my will but your will
be done Jesus shows us that the father
has a better way amen
the father has a better way are you with
me
father knows best Paul understood this
but let me just say this to you God
doesn't send us without equipping us
amen you have everything you need in
order to make a difference in the world
you have everything that you need are
you listening choir you have everything
that you need because with you and God
that's a majority amen
God doesn't send us without equipping us
when I was in the Marine Corps I was in
Iraq of all places and I was on this
hill and I decided to relieve my Marines
but I knew that I was in Holy Land and I
wanted to pray and so I you know I'm
being tough like the Marines I'm Marines
you you guys go down I'm gonna stay up
here for a minute
I wanted to pray and so I knelt down and
I I went to pray and this is what I
heard when I knelt down
you will not reenlist you will preach my
word and you will teach my word and you
will draw my people to me and I
just kept saying yes Lord but let me
tell you when God sends us he empowers
us he equips us everything that I've
ever used in my life or I've ever done
God uses it for ministry are you with me
and then he sent me to school to learn a
bit more to get a bit more discipline in
my life but let me just say this to you
I do this job with fear and trembling
I've been doing this for over twenty
plus years and there's not a Sunday
where I'm not nervous now once I stand
up to speak I'm alright but I'm nervous
because I know that this is holy work I
know that there people coming to the
house of God to hear a word from God and
I want to do it right and I want to do
it in such a way that I can get out of
the way so that God's will might be done
in the life of his people are you
listening to me and I know that this is
holy work my friends but I know this
more than anything everything that I
need God provides he doesn't send us
without equipping us he doesn't send us
without empowering us we have everything
that we need in order to make a
difference right here right now what I
love about
this text is that paul silas and timothy
had everything that they needed in order
to accomplish God's will some of you are
saying well did they have this that they
had they had everything that they needed
in order to accomplish God's will and
you see they trusted in the spirit and
their prayer life was real because
prayer makes us sensitive to the Spirit
are you with me and so it's when we're
sensitive to the Spirit then we can
listen and hear what God wants us to do
one of the things that happens in in my
house is my son knows that we don't
watch programs like the Witch and
Wizards of Waverly Place anything that
deals with sorcery now and you're saying
why why am i doing that or why am i
saying that it's because I don't need
anything else to tell my spiritual
senses and it's not to say that these
shows are inherently bad for you but are
they spiritually edifying so I don't
need anything else
to dull my spirit to the Word of God in
my friends it is in the Word of God
where we need to be amen
studies that show that self approval
workman that need not be ashamed but
rightly dividing the word of truth it's
when we read the Word of God that we
understand what good and evil really is
amen sometimes we don't know that
because you know what we do is we say
you know so-and-so is a good person and
I want us to caution the only person I
can speak for I can give an account for
is myself but Jesus says there's none
good but the father he didn't even call
himself good so we ought to be careful
when we call people good and bad and are
you with me but when we read that word
of God and when we studied that word of
God that light comes on that's why we
want you to have Bibles study Bibles it
was important that you
a Study Bible something to help you to
dive deep to go a little deeper to get a
little closer to God to know what God
wants for your life it makes all the
difference it makes all the difference
how many of you know that just a little
talk with Jesus makes it all right maybe
you'll start with the word of God and
and you'll start with maybe five minutes
a day but the more you do it you'll
begin to delight in it and before you
know it is thirty minutes the day it's
an hour of the day and you you will just
look forward to it
one time in the Methodist Church I was
we were going to a clergy meeting and
Bishop Pennell was supposed to be our
speaker and he was a very good speaker
but when we got there bishop Pennell was
not there he had called in a retired
bishop bitch bishop guettler to speak to
us and I'm gonna be honest with you I
looked and I just I'm like who is this
old guy and what is he going to say to
us I mean I was just disappointed that
you know Bishop Pennell wasn't there but
I never said it out verbally but I said
it in my head and Bishop Luce you too
look he mounted the podium and this is
what he said how much time do you spend
with the Lord
do you give God the first fruits of your
day how much time do you give to the
Lord and so one of the other clergy was
there and they said well Bishop Mueller
how much time you give to the Lord you
know how we do when when somebody says
something and you know we want to put it
back on them he said I spend the first
three hours of my morning with the Lord
how much time do you spend with the Lord
it makes all the difference maybe you'll
start with five minutes a day I was
sharing with somebody that prayer is
essential and sometimes even with my
prayer life it's not always about a
petition it's not always about
making a request to God sometimes I hear
God say to me shut up
just listen one of my African friends
said that's why God made us with two
ears and one mouth that we might listen
more are you with me and when I sit
there and I listen my spirit is being
renewed anybody know what I'm talking
about just being quiet some of you you
know you'd live in beautiful homes and
you got a back deck and you sit out
there and you watch the sunrise and you
talk to the Lord and it's nothing like
it amen you sit there and you have your
cup of coffee and you don't call anybody
you just sit and be with the Lord and
let God fill your mind and fill your
heart and you walk away spirit filled
anybody know what I'm talking about
God is good and this is what Paul
understood and so verses 13 through 15
says on the Sabbath the day they went
outside of the city well let me go back
before that verses 11 and 12 they began
to travel from Samothrace to Neapolis to
Philippi you see in favourable weather a
ship could make a journey from Troyes to
Samothrace and one day and from
Samothrace to Neapolis and one more day
but a ship captain would usually lay
over and Samothrace not wanting to fight
the waters at night and then the next
day they would go to Philip I but
something happened when they was there
how many of you know that even in
serving the Lord things are not always
gonna work in our favor anybody know
what I'm talking about that sometimes we
experience
our trials struggles challenges it's
just a part of life and it says that
Paul and his companions were arrested
and they were beaten and they were
jailed and sometimes when our faith is
not mature we ask questions like well
God why didn't you intercede for them
why did they have to be beaten why did
they have to be jailed what did they
have to be persecuted I don't know the
answer to that only God does but here's
what I want you to know is that while
they were in prison they ministered to
people
amen and that the jailer gave his life
to Christ and his whole family gave
their life to Christ because they were
spirit filled and they was doing the
work of God I'd rather be in the dungeon
with Jesus than to be in the palace
without him are you with me too often we
want everything to just be good we think
that when we become Christians that we
ought to just lay down and somebody to
to put the big fan on us and we're
drinking you know some Caribbean drink
it's not quite like that is it life
happens amen God promised to be with us
always he didn't say it was always going
to be good but he promised to be with us
always even unto the ends of the age I
don't know about you but that's a great
promise for me it was a great promise
when when half of us didn't know whether
we were coming back from Iraq or not I
hung on that I promise he's with me no
matter where I am he's with me I hung on
to Romans eight that nothing would
separate me from his great love
not life nor death nor peril no sword
nor nakedness no height nor depth nor
principaling will separate me from his
great love which is in Christ Jesus our
Lord this is the faith that Paul went
into the jail so with it also says that
the magistrate apologized to Paul to
Timothy and to Silas because he didn't
know that they were Roman citizens when
they got out of the jail they met a
woman named Lydia and when I came upon
this story it's interesting is that it
says that her heart was open to hear
meaning that it was the word was gonna
fall on good soil because she was ready
to hear she was open and when they
shared the gospel with her she and her
whole family were baptized
you know sometimes Paul gets a bad rap
because people say Paul didn't like
women and Paul said some bad things
about women but what I want to caution
us to do when we read the Word of God is
not to read one thing and to take it out
of context because what I want you to
know is that Lydia was his friend and if
you read the scripture there were other
times that they visit this place and
other Christians visit this place and
apparently she was a wealthy woman that
her her home was big enough to
accommodate people and she accommodated
them and the one thing that I'd thought
of when I read this scripture as we need
each other there are no long Rangers in
ministry we need
each other are you with me I think about
in this church we we have Joshua and
Tabitha and Oliver who are light bearers
and they bring the light into the church
we need them but we also need Natalia to
keep it before us to say that this is an
important role in the life of our church
I think of Georgia and Charlotte and
Megan and Chloe and some of the ones in
our youth group that show up every week
even though they're small in numbers
they bring hope to us but I think of the
ones that's giving them the support
Greg Elliot and Mary Elliot and Donna
Smith and Sherri cheetah who just want
to support them we need them and they
need us are you with me
I think about a Jimmy scholar who shows
up week after week to do the books for
the church to make sure that it's done
right and all of the other things that
he does around this place we need him
he needs us think about a Jim Chapel
you'll see him with a tool belt on and a
Mike Collins in a Klauss world and these
folks are moving around the building
doing things that a lot of us can do
they're just brilliant people
Billy Walton electrical genius use his
skill to bless our church we need him we
need them and they need us I need you
Bobby I need you to keep on teaching
hallelujah I need
Lord to keep on teaching I need Fred
Lovelace to keep on teaching so that we
might grow mature in the faith I need
you and you need me
Robby I need you to stay faithful to our
men on Thursday nights to keep on
teaching we need that amen
I need you we need each other brother
you guys are visiting another church but
I need you because you might be the
light you might be the light that will
go to places that maybe I don't know
where to go and you need to be God's
hands you need to be God's voice amen
I need you and you need me we need each
other there no long ranges in ministry
we need each other I've got a prayer
group and these folks keep me grounded
we pray over every aspect of this church
and we pray for each other
I need them they need me why am I saying
this because I want you to hear it and I
want you to get it down in your spirit
that there are no long ranges in
ministry too often even as men we say
that I'm good and we hold the hands
as if we don't need anybody we need each
other we need each other
amen mr. de Chapelle I need you
Charlotte I need to see that smile every
Sunday I need it I need you and you need
me some of you are doing things behind
the scenes Rayna I need you I need to
see you here I need to see you working
for God in this church that we might
work together are you with me I need you
friends this was the lesson for the
Apostle Paul is that we need each other
Wendy Collins I need you I need you to
keep on doing your doing for the work of
ministry for a.m. Davis it puts us in
the light with these kids who need us I
need you we need her in this church my
friends if you haven't heard anything
else I've said what I want you to hear
is that God is saying we need each other
we need each other we need to pray for
one another that's how we show our love
for one another is when we will turn
down our plate and fast for someone
else's behalf so that they might reach
their goals I need you and you need me
and when we don't think that we need
each other we're in denial and how many
of you know that denial is not a river
in Egypt we need each other
with the person next to you and we're
gonna pray Sara field glad to have you
pray for us I want you to come and take
a microphone and lead us in prayer
Heavenly Father I thank you for your
presence in this place lord I thank you
that your words are life and truth and I
pray that each word that's been said
here today would fall on good soil Lord
that the words that have been spoken
here would last and that they would bear
much fruit would I pray that these words
would come back all week and next month
and next year to say am i listening to
the call of God am I going where he is
sending me am I being faithful to reach
out even when it seems like other people
might not be receiving it the way that I
want them to but am I being faithful to
the call of God am i staying true to
what I know he's told me to do am i
staying in fellowship with other
believers and growing in my faith lord I
pray that you'd remind us each day that
we can give our firstfruits to you and
that you're ready and waiting for us
that we can be still and know that you
are God and that you will be exalted
among the nations just thank you Lord
for their power and your work within us
thank you that resurrection power lies
within us because of the blood of Jesus
Christ we thank you Lord for what you're
doing and what you'll continue to do as
we surrender and lay our lives in your
hands and Jesus name
maybe Isis come for that we might
worship the Lord that the giving about
tides and our
and to know thus says the Lord Jesus
Jesus how I trust him how I prove him or
and or Jesus Jesus precious Jesus Oh for
grace to trust him more how many of you
trust him with every aspect of your life
not just this one hour on sunday God
wants to redeem every aspect of our
lives but I wanted to admit that
trusting God is not easy anybody else
want to admit it with me because God's
ways are not our ways sometime God moves
a little too slow anybody else but
trusting God is sometimes difficult do
we have any control freaks in the room
you want to be in control of every
aspect of your life and you don't want
to give it over to anybody even to God
giving up that control surrendering is
difficult then there are those of us who
say that we love the Lord we will do
whatever God wants us to do we'll go
wherever God wants us to go but the
first sign of trouble the first sign of
challenge and then we believe that
someone's coming to attacked our faith
but here the good news this morning
friends God cares about us and he loves
us and he wants us to
ruston whatever you're facing in this
season of your life don't give up on God
don't give up the best chance at joy and
peace how many of you want joy and peace
today touch your neighbor and say trust
God it's okay touch your neighbor and
say trust God there was a man by the
name of Joe his business was going down
and he had this idea if he could just
hit the lottery everything would be all
right maybe there's some of you in here
who feel the same way and all i have to
say is if you hit lottery the church
gets ten percent amen but he prayed this
prayer that God please I'm about to lose
my business let me win the lottery so
that I can put my affairs back in order
the lottery came and Joe didn't win his
next prayer was lord I lost my my
business but I don't want to lose my
house please let me win this lottery so
i can put my affairs back in in order
the lottery cane Joe still had no luck
anybody ever get tired and want to just
tell god what you really feel joe says
look lord I'm a good person I'll go to
church I do everything that you've asked
me to do and all I want to do is play
lottery hit this number so that I can
put my affairs back in order why are you
not hearing me why are you not listening
to me and then this bright light shone
ha no and he heard this voice it was the
voice of God and God says Joe you got to
meet me halfway you got to play the
lottery buy a ticket but it's also true
in the spiritual sense we say that we
want a relationship with God but we
don't spend the time in order to have
the relationship with God the Word of
God says steady study the Word of God
night and day studies to show that
selves approve a workman that need not
be ashamed but rightly dividing the word
of truth if we think that this one hours
all that we need we're not feeding
ourselves we need to spend more time
with God amen if we say that we want a
close relationship with God than we have
to invest the time just like Joe you got
to be in it to win it we've got to
invest in it so that God can use what
we're investing to his good I want to
share with you that i was as i shared
with daniel i was trying to work on this
sermon and i was looking at the
lectionary text i picked at months ago
and it just wasn't working I was like
trying to put a square into a circle and
I was forcing it and it wasn't working
and Daniel about midnight or eleven
o'clock at night I came to my senses
maybe this is not what God wants me to
preach I know I'm stuff and I know y'all
said it took you all the way to eleven
o'clock at night and I say go ahead and
I said Lord what do you want me to
preach and he says I want you to teach
them about trusting me and so we have
proverbs 3 verse 5 and 6 and I hope that
you will remember this message that you
will remember this passage
trust in the Lord with all that heart
repeat after me trust in the Lord with
all that heart and lean not and to their
own understanding but in all thy ways
acknowledge him and he shall direct your
path so what I want to do is I said well
well Lord where do you want me to go
with this and he said I want you to do a
character study on Joseph and because
Joseph is a couple of chapters I'm going
to summarize the story for you with your
permission unless you want to stay and I
can read all chapters to you then you
would you help me read out cannot just
summarize it look I see if somebody
going yeah please get along Josephus
described as the overconfident younger
son of Jacob he's highly flavored God
has blessed him has shared a dream with
them but what does he do he shares the
dream with his ten older brothers and
can I translate Joseph is a pain to his
older brothers but when he shares this
dream that God has told them that they
would bow to him the brothers wanted to
kill him they knew that Joseph was
Jacob's favorite child there should be
no favorites in the family anybody know
what I'm talking about my mother used to
say I love you equally I'm not sure
that's true but that's what she would
say and so the brothers conspire that
what they would do is that rather than
kill Joseph they will get rid of him and
so they tied him up and they sold him
into slavery and went back home and told
their father that Joseph had been killed
by a while
animal let me digress for a minute
here's my first question how do you
handle adversity in times of challenge
how do you deal with life when you feel
as though you've been wrong has life
been unfair to you you're doing the best
you know how to do you're doing
everything that you know how to do but
nothing seems to be working out how did
you handle it here's Joseph recipe trust
in the Lord with all your heart lean not
into his own understanding and all your
ways acknowledge him and he shall direct
your paths my son is listening you go
boy favor doesn't exempt us from
struggle a lot of times we think that as
we become Christian somehow we're going
to sit on a Pew and somebody's going to
fanned us with the big leave and we're
going to be sipping lemonade but that's
not real life having favor it does not
exempt us from struggles but the
question is when the struggles of life
come upon us what do we do the slave
traders sold Joseph to Pharaoh I mean to
Potiphar 10 Pharaoh's high officials and
he served his master well I mean don't
you hear the music plane it sounds like
it's just going to be a wonderful story
that now he's in the house of G of
Pharaoh and all as well but the Masters
wife tried to
Joseph scripture says that he was a
handsome young man I like to think of
myself as Joseph sometime how about your
day no okay it's just me but he had
impeccable integrity now I should ask my
wife about that because she was one who
said yes so but after Joseph rejected
her she loud on him and he was thrown
into prison so you see this one minute
he sold into slavery and the next minute
he's thrown into a prison you say how
can this be fair why would God do this
he he said that he had favor upon
Joseph's life let me ask a question is
it possible that when we go through
struggles that God might be working
something in us or out of us is it
possible when I look at my life some of
the greatest growth has come through
struggle the greatest growth has come
through struggle but then Pharaoh has a
dream which disturbed him and nobody
could
interpret the dream but the jail keeper
remembered that Joseph had this ability
and they summoned Joseph and he was able
to interpret the dream Ferro rewarded
Joseph with overseeing the entire land
of Egypt in the prosperous times he took
up the abundance of the harvests so that
they would be ready in the times of
great famine but it was doing those
great times of famine that Joseph's
brothers came to Egypt looking for full
for food and when I looked at that tax I
said there it is payback he's going to
get him back the very ones were sold him
into slavery Joseph got him he's going
to get him back he's got all the power
and they don't even recognize who he is
because it's been like 20 years but
Joseph recognized them get him Joseph
come on I'm reading the texts let's see
what happens next but I heard this story
about a man who was bitten by an animal
in the 1900s and this is before they had
a cure for rabies he went to the doctors
they ran a battery of tests and they
said you have rabies we don't have a
cure for there's nothing that we can do
so the man looked sad and he says dr.
you have a piece of paper and a pen he
said yes he gave him a piece of paper
and a pen and the man began to write the
doctor left that room and came back two
hours later the man was still writing
and the doctor says wow you've got a
long will he says no doc this is this is
not a will this is a this is a list of
the people that I'm going to bite before
I die
how many of you know revenge gets us
nowhere someone once said that nothing
costs more and yields less than revenge
a society built upon the foundation of
vengeance as a society doomed to be
destroyed Mahatma Gandhi said and I
phone I will only make the whole world
blind so the question is what did Joseph
do I believe he trusted God more than he
trusted his own understanding and
everything he acknowledges God and in
turn he was waiting for God to direct
his past when the brothers returned with
benjamin joseph revealed his identity
and the brothers suffered from great
remorse but what did Joseph do he
forgave them
he forgave them and then so doing here
was a lost son and a father reunited
Joseph was then reunited with his all of
his family but he also kept the nation
from starving talking about trusting God
throughout the Bible we exhort it again
and again to trust in the lord will
warned against trusting and princes and
riches and even in ourselves as the
scripture says
but if we trust in god we will be
blessed but what does it mean it does
not mean carelessness or indifference it
does not mean just let things go as they
would those things are not trusting
neglect is not trusting trust is
something more positive it's not a mere
happening it's a true reliance on god
and lastly when john wesley was crossing
the Atlantic from England to America he
wanted to become a missionary to the
Indians the ship that he was on was in a
bad storm and everyone was afraid John
Wesley included but what attracted his
attention was that some Arabians who was
on the ship they were calm and
undisturbed about what was going on but
when he inquired their reply was that
they was trusting in the Lord with all
of their heart and they said as
Christians we have nothing to fear Wes
did not have that experience but what he
learned from that simple from those
simple hearted people caused him to seek
a similar experience but here's what he
learned there is no worry and trust
there's no murmuring and trust there is
no rebellion in trust but there is peace
a peace which passive all understanding
trusting brings competence in assurance
it permits us to see the true character
of God lets us know that we are riding
on the wings of his love tis so sweet to
trust in jesus and to take him at his
word just to rest upon his promise and
to know thus says the Lord Jesus Jesus
how I trust him how I prove more indoor
Jesus Jesus precious Jesus oh for grace
to trust him would you bow your heads in
the word of prayer
you
dear Lord of love
the midst of the chaos of this world we
gather to do something that is so
terrifyingly needed it seems that in our
world of walling ourselves off from each
other we do not trust it seems that it
would be contradictory to gather to hear
and a talk and to speak of trust but
Lord we gather to pray that we may trust
you and allow you to move in our lives
but as we gather in your house much is
on our hearts and minds we feel lost in
the darkness created by our sins of
overwhelming pride the lust for power
and inward selfishness we are so
self-consumed that we do not think that
we need your love guidance and identity
as your people but today we return to
you today we cast aside our inward
focused lives and shift ourselves back
to you we are your people let this
service remind us that we are to follow
your call in our lives even though that
we may be surrounded by hate we return
to you this day for love to counter that
hate we are surrounded by isolation but
we return to you today today to gather
together severing that loneliness we are
surrounded by greed but we return to you
today to be reminded that we are called
to be selfless and as we take that first
step back to you let us join together in
body and in spirit to pray that prayer
that Christ taught his own to pray
saying our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
Thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever all men
but God has a way of finding us
scripture says everyone that seeks him
indeed finds him here is this eunuch
reading the scripture not understanding
what it means and in the middle of the
desert Philip shows up and he helps to
explain it to him and not only that he
baptizes the eunuch today Daniel now
talked about the scripture and there are
three words that we want you to remember
and those words are surrender commitment
and covenant william booth said the
greatness of a human's power is the
measure of their ability to surrender
the more you go with the flow of life
and surrender the outcome to God the
less you seek constant clarity the more
you will find that fabulous things start
to turn up in your life most of you
won't believe but I spend a lot of my
days reading books and you're not going
to believe me when I said I read this
book but trust me I did Mandy Hale said
in her book the single woman love life
and a dash of sass surrender is the
ultimate sign of strength and the
foundation of a spiritual life
surrendering affirms that we are no
longer willing to live in pain it
expresses a deep desire to transcend our
struggles and transform our negative
emotions it commands a life beyond our
egos beyond that part of ourselves that
continually reminding us that we are
separate different and alone
surrendering allows us to return to our
true nature and move effort
effortlessly through the cosmic dance
that we call life it is a powerful
statement that proclaims the perfect
order of the universe and then you are
like the part that you share with me
when she said that surrender is a gift
that you can give yourself it's an act
of faith it's saying that even though I
can't see where the river is flowing I
trust that it will take me in the right
direction surrender is also a battle
term it implies giving up all of our
rights to the Conqueror when the
opposing army surrenders they lay down
their arms and they surrender to the
winners control surrendering to God is
just like that in the same way God has a
plan for our lives and when we surrender
it's laying aside our plans our agenda
to eagerly seek his plan for our lives
the good news is that God's plan for us
is so much better than our plan how many
of you know that to be true amen thank
you for a hallelujah Joshua I'll take it
again I was reading another book
surprise surprise and the author Rick
Warren said something about surrender
and it comes in four parts first he says
following God's surrender is following
God's lead without knowing where he is
sending you second waiting for God's
timing without knowing when it will come
third expecting a miracle without
knowing how God will provide it and
forth trusting god's purpose without
understanding the circumstances even
though I may not agree with all of what
Rick Warren says all the time his words
got me thinking of a practical question
what I call the how question in light of
all of this talk
surrender how do we know that we have
surrendered to God after sitting with
this question for a bit i came with i
came to a couple thoughts that i shared
with Derek and he's gave me permission
to share with you all and I think
surrendering to God means that you give
control over to God and rely on to God
to make things work out in our world
today there seems to be ample amounts of
other people manipulating others to
their own agenda and trying to control
everything themselves and everybody else
when hearts surrender to God and gather
together the emphasis is no longer
focused on inward it's focused on
outward we people do not become
self-serving demanding and competitive
with one another when they surrender
themselves to God but and there's always
a but I want to be careful to surrender
one's own self our desire to be in
control especially of the resources that
make up that self like money and time is
such a difficult thing to do and is not
one that is easily taken on many have
thought I want to live for God but also
I still want to be me I want to earn
enough money to live comfortably to have
things and take care of what I want to
take care of while this is totally fair
the goal of a surrendered life is to
find complete solace in God and King
community with one another thinking
inwardly about oneself competes with God
for the primary attention in our lives
jesus said you cannot serve both God and
money
and wherever your treasure is your heart
will be also the night before Jesus's
resurrection he surrendered himself and
all that he had to God he prayed calling
God abba father as a child would say to
their parent jesus said god father
everything is possible for you so please
take and remove this cup from me but not
what I want but what you want I think of
this moment of Jesus's surrendering
himself to God when we talk about
baptism for me baptism requires us to
surrender ourselves and everything that
makes up ourselves to something outside
of us we take on the arduous task of
being God's not being just our own we
commit ourselves to God
when I think of commitment I'm thinking
of TL and Myrtle Jenkins married for 73
years anybody know anybody other than TL
married for 73 years oh you know your
parents how many years 73 hashtag life
and limb my end let's give them a hand
that's a men for that that's a lot of
babies I'm sorry that's a lot of babies
I'm sorry but you know why that's a life
goal for me I don't know about you yeah
I know that's right but when I think of
commitment I think about having follow
through doing what I said that I would
do when i think of our baptismal
covenant and what we say in our
baptismal covered covenant following
through what we said we would do
commitment is stronger than my own will
i have to give it to god so that i can
really follow through spiritual
commitment reflects a personal depth of
our faith we recognize that faith is
involved in every aspect of our lives
not just this one hour that we endure on
Sunday morning but how we live our lives
every single day because of faith my
life has meaning in my life has purpose
faith gives us and in a piece if we're
trusted so the question is are we
committed when I was thinking about
commitment I was I ran across an
interesting story by a gentleman named
Ryan Yoder and Ryan Yoder was a high
schooler and his story goes like this
this April my school west johnston high
school went to the 2010 Winterguard
international world championships in
Dayton Ohio we practice hard all season
and at the final ceremony our results
paid all
but we lost two of our band members in
an accident we worked so hard for them
and we work so hard and our coaches and
our friends helped us all along the way
and staying true to what they believed
is my story of commitment when I think
of commitment I think of a couple by the
name of Al and Jean they were in their
70s but they had taken care of their 29
year old grandson who was paralyzed from
the chest down from cerebral palsy and
mental illness this young man had over
45 big operations and yet they were
there they had to do everything to take
care of him he couldn't do anything for
himself they gave up their business they
moved him to a warmer climate and
devoted their lives to taking care of
him one of the surgeons told them
there's no medical reason for his
survival except for your commitment to
love and to care for him the surgeon
said it made all the difference one of
my favorite people as of recent because
of my illness I had just got done
binge-watching a show on Netflix called
the crown sir winston churchill or as i
like to call on the bulldog set it this
way never never and anything great or
small large or petty never give in
except to the convictions of honor and
good sense never yield to force a never
yield to the apparently overwhelming
might of the enemy as I was reflecting
on this comment I thought about how
controversial it is
especially in our political atmosphere
over the past weekend it seems we are
all on separate sides of everything that
we say and we do everywhere we look
someone is smashing windows of
businesses pointing fingers and at one
another in hate and hurting one another
belittling someone are seeing right
through them we see turmoil and chaos
everywhere we go and it's hard to feel
as though we as humans matter but this
is the radical nature of the Covenant
may God made with humankind God's love
triumphs over our petty hate and anger
let me say that one more time God's love
triumphs over our petty hate and anger
baptism reminds us of this covenant is
not just one way it requires that we
surrender ourselves to God just as God
surrendered Jesus to us hear these words
from our baptism covenant brothers and
sisters in christ through the sacrament
of baptism we are initiated into
Christ's Holy Church we are incorporated
into God's mighty acts of salvation and
give a new birth through water and the
spirit all of this is God's gift offered
to us without price through confirmation
and through the reaffirmation of our
faith we renew the covenant declared at
our baptism we acknowledge what God is
doing for us and affirm our commitment
to Christ's Holy Church so what is
meaning of baptism if the meaning of
baptism can be ball down to one word
what would that word be I think it would
be identification baptism speaks
primarily of a personal public
identification with Jesus Christ's
baptism is a sign of a new covenant that
God made with his people baptism is the
only true expressions of one's
profession of faith in Christ as Savior
and Lord it is a true picture of the
death burial resurrection of Jesus in
the early days of Christianity baptism
was a sign or badge of being a follower
of Christ it wasn't so much about what
you said it was about what you actually
did you could say that you are Christian
but if you didn't get baptized and those
particular days you were not a true
follower of Christ in Romans chapter six
verses 3 and 4 the Apostle Paul puts
baptism in this way don't you know that
all of us who are baptized into Christ
were baptized into his death we were
there for buried with him through
baptism into death in order that just as
Christ was raised from the dead through
the glory of the Father we too may live
a new life so my question for us to
ponder this morning is how important is
your baptism does it cause us to live a
different way or is it just something
that we do once a year how important is
the baptismal covenant to you what does
it mean as I was reflecting on this and
Derek asked me these same questions I
believe it means that we have turned
from an old life of sin into a new life
in Jesus Christ
it means we are publicly identifying
with the death burial and resurrection
of Jesus Christ it means we are openly
joining the ranks of those who believe
in Jesus Christ's baptism is a physical
picture of a spiritual truth it
represents what happens the moment God
brings you into the family this morning
we had a very powerful moment as we were
doing the reaffirmation of our faith one
lady came to us and said I've never been
baptized and I like to be baptized today
said Wow of course absolutely we
definitely want to do that I'll have
time with her to talk with her and to
talk about the church and what
everything means but she came up and she
was surrounded by other members of
Providence church and I'm just saying
that that's not anything that we could
have accounted for that was only the
blessing of God that something was said
was truly meaningful for her I like you
to open your hymnals to page 41 it's
entitled to Thanksgiving over the water
the Lord be with you let us pray eternal
father when nothing existed but chaos
you swept across the deep waters and
brought forth light in the days of Noah
you save those on a rock through water
after the flood you set forth the clouds
a rainbow and when you saw your people
as slaves in Egypt you led them to
freedom through the see their children
you brought through the Jordan to the
land which you promised sing to the lord
all the earth teller of the Lord's mercy
each day in the fullness of time you
send Jesus nurtured by the water of a
womb he was baptized by John and
anointed by your spirit he called his
disciples to share in the baptism of his
death and resurrection and to make
disciples of all nations declare his
works two nations pour out your Holy
Spirit to bless this gift of water and
those who receive it to wash away their
sin and to clothe them in righteousness
throughout their lives that dying and
being raised with Christ they may share
in his final victory or praise to you
today we will reaffirm our faith this is
not being rebab ties we believe your
first baptism took and so this is a
reaffirmation of your faith sort of
rededicating your life to God and Daniel
and I are going to touch the water do
the sign of the Cross on your head and
just ask God to help you live as a
faithful disciple of Jesus Christ and
then our altar is here for you to have a
little talk with jesus how many of you
know that just a little talk with jesus
makes it all right amen so we're going
to ask that the choir come down first
of the Lord when John heard in prison
what the Messiah was doing he sent word
by His disciples and said to him are you
the one who is to come or are we to wait
for another jesus said to them go and
tell John what you hear and see the
blind received their sight the lame walk
the lepers are cleansed the Deaf hear
and the dead are raised and the poor
have good news brought to them and
blessed is anyone who takes no offense
at me as they went away Jesus began to
speak to the crowds about John what did
you go out into the wilderness to look
at a reed shaken by the wind what then
did you go and see someone dressed in
soft robes look those two wear soft
robes are in royal places what then did
you go out and see a profit yes I tell
you and more than a prophet this is the
one about whom it is written see I am
sending my messenger ahead of you who
will prepare your way before you truly I
tell you among those born of women no
one has arisen greater than John the
Baptist yet the least of these in the
kingdom of heaven is greater than he the
word of god for the people of God let us
pray most gracious God I am a sinner
saved by your grace a broken vessel but
I know all you have to do is say the
word and I shall be healed long enough
to do your work and to do your will Lord
hide this creature behind the cross that
your people might see you and not me
that they might hear you and not me
the words of my mouth the meditations of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer force
in Christ's name I pray amen I want to
challenge your thinking this morning
with the thought don't lose heart don't
lose heart and this avan season it's a a
wonderful time for many of us but
sometimes the holidays are also
struggles for others how many of you
know what I mean so the good news today
is don't lose heart don't lose heart
typically I would open with a story and
share something with you but today I'm
going to do it a little different I want
to open up with a little bit of the
background of what's going on this story
is about John the Baptist and we know
about John the Baptist we know that
before John the Baptist heaven was
silent for 400 years the last prophet
was Malachi and we have his words but
there was no profit no one to do gods
bidding no one to be a mouthpiece for
God for 400 years and then the angel
Gabriel appeared to Elizabeth and
Zachariah and he appeared to them before
Mary and Joseph and he says you will
have a son and you are to name him John
and John will be the forerunner for the
Messiah and it's
it's a beautiful story in the scripture
we learn a little bit about John that
John was this awesome guy but he was a
little strange he made his own clothes
of camels hide and a leather belt and he
ate locusts and wild honey but he could
preach he could preach with power and
people came from miles around 20 30
miles walking in the desert just to him
because they had never seen someone who
was sold out like that who couldn't be
bought so we get this story and now in
our texts John is in prison and John
doesn't appear to be the guy that we've
read about earlier what happened to his
confidence what happened to the messages
that John would preach because you
remember John repeat I mean he preached
repentance and he preached that the
Messiah is coming to messages people
return their lives back to God it was a
powerful but in this text now John is in
prison and he sends his disciples to
Jesus and he asked this question are you
the one to come or should we wait for
another I mean it seems a bit puzzling
when you look at John's confidence but
what John didn't understand is that the
Messiah
is not here to meet his expectations of
what a messiah should be or do Jesus was
doing that very thing that God told him
to do have you ever been disappointed
with anybody I'll never forget I called
my grandmother than I was going to tell
her my mother and my grandmother stopped
me on the phone and she said some what
is it like to to raise five boys and one
girl who's handicapped what is that like
said grandma I don't know she said
that's right you don't know cut your
mother some slack and hung the phone up
somebody say tough love every now and
then we need a little tough love and
you're going to see it in the scriptures
but Jesus came to save he came to bring
us hope he came to bring us a love that
we had never known came to bring grace
that had not been experienced in
hundreds of years he didn't come to be
what we expected he came to bring us
peace love with Martin Luther King jr.
says about peace he says peace is not
the absence of tension peace is the
presence of God Emmanuel with us so what
do we do when things don't turn out the
way that we thought they should or the
way that we've planned or the way that
we expect an unlikely source jennifer
lopez was asked this question I know yes
in Jennifer Lopez thing and she says
things don't always turn out exactly the
way that you want them you might even
disappointment but know this you're not
always going to be a winner but that's
when you have to stop and figure out
what you need to do in order to change
your situation the late great Maya
Angelou says you may not be able to
control the events in your life but you
don't have to be reduced by them stuff
is going to happen amen life is going to
happen it happens around us in us is
going to happen margarita tatarskiy she
says maybe you took a job and that job
was not fulfilling and you start
dreading going to work it didn't turn
out the way you thought maybe you
studied intensely for the CPA exam or
the bar exam and you didn't make it
didn't turn out the way to you thought
maybe you thought you'd be married by
now but you don't even have a date
things are not working out the way you
thought maybe your kids aren't as close
to you as they were before it didn't
turn out the way that you thought but
what do we do when this happens when
your plans don't work out the way you
thought they should be maybe there's
someone here today that's struggling
there's tremendous
frustration and disappointment about
life and maybe you came here today for
this very purpose so that you can be
redirected st. Francis of Assisi says
preach the gospel to every one and use
words if necessary what a profound
statement I believe that he was saying
that we ought to be a living example of
the gospel now people might argue with
you about what you believe in the
doctrines but nobody can argue against
your own testimony of how you experience
God i'm going to ask judy getting hard
to give hearths her testimony i want you
to think for a minute of a time in your
life when it didn't quite go the way you
thought it should maybe it was a bad day
bad week bad situation bad life well one
of the Bible verses that I lived my life
by Jeremiah 29 11 4 it says I know the
plans I have for you declares the lord I
have good plans for you not plans to
hurt you but plans to give you hope and
a future however I've often discovered
as I go through life that my plans and
God's plans are a little bit different
or did I just not understand his plan
for my life I'd like to share a story
with you as my daughter Heather lay
dying from a deadly virus I prayed dear
God make her better make her strong make
her healthy but Heather died and for a
long time I did not understand how this
could be part of God's plan for my life
until one day I stopped and I thought
about it he did make her better he did
make her strong again he did make her
healthy it was then that I realized that
God had a much wiser direction for my
life
than I did for you see if Heather had
lived she'd have been confined to a bed
for the rest of her life so I've
traveled the right life and I have
discovered that my life is not quite the
same as guard has a nine for me but
that's okay because you know what he
knows what tomorrow is going to bring
not me so if we trust God to leave us on
a safe and wonderful journey throughout
our lives he will show us the best path
to take and even if it's not quite the
journey that you expected and things
don't quite go the way you want them to
go that's okay because God's plan is
always better if you just trust and
follow him thank you what do you do when
things don't turn out the way that you
thought they they should know that
you're not forsaken know that you didn't
do anything wrong stuff happens life
happens it doesn't mean that God has
abandoned you you are not forsaken
Hebrews 13 verse 5 says I will never
leave you neither will I forsake you
there's a story of a man Jim by the name
of Jim Jim had horrible hearing and/or
horrible memory and he ran into a friend
by the name of Bill he says hey Bill
how're you doing he said Bill you
remember when I used to have a bad
memories as ol certainly do he said well
I went to a seminar and my memory is
good now he said really what was the
name of the seminar he says hold on for
a minute wait wait um he saw his wife
and he says bill what's that that long
flowers got a long stem it's got thorns
on it and a and a red bloom he said a
rose he said that's right roles when did
we go to that sometimes our memory is
short when it comes to God
that we forget what God has done for us
my friends it would be a wonderful thing
to to talk to your parents and your
grandparents and and ask the question
about God's faithfulness and you'll find
that God's track record has been amazing
in this story I think that's what
happened to John John had forgotten the
story that was told of his miraculous
birth John had forgotten that people had
walked 20 and 30 miles in the desert
just to see him John had forgotten that
though God had given him purpose to
preach these messages and to baptize
people with the baptism of repentance it
was Jesus himself the Son of God that he
had an opportunity to baptize my friends
it's easy for us to forget and I think
that would happen to John is that John
took his eyes off of God for a minute
and it can happen to all of us any of us
you remember the story about Peter Jesus
walking on water and and Peter says lure
bid me to come to you Jesus has come
Peter had enough faith to get out of the
boat but he didn't have enough faith to
get to Jesus what happens when we take
our eyes off of God scripture says he
that keeps his mind stayed on me I will
keep him in perfect peace
you remember what Daniel just read in
your hearing John sends his disciples to
Jesus and asked are you the one or
should we wait for another notice Jesus
responds tell them what you see the lame
walk the blind can now see the prisoners
are set free the good news is preached
go back and tell John that what was he
saying John I need you to remember the
scripture I need you to remember Isaiah
40 verse 3 there's one crying in the
wilderness preparing the way for the
Lord Jesus took him back to Isaiah 60
verse 1 when he was talking about the
lame walk and so forth go back to the
scripture let it fill you let it comfort
you my friends when I was in Iraq of all
places and we were taking fire I
remember Romans 8 that talked about
nothing shall separate me from the light
from the love of God nor life nor death
death nor height nor depth nor
principalities and it goes down and
saying nothing shall separate us from
the love of God which is in Christ Jesus
our Lord nothing we're not forsaken he
will be there with us and for us what I
like a
this text is that Jesus sends his
disciples back to him with a word but
that John would know to remember the
scripture not only that it's I found it
interesting that Jesus didn't go to the
prison and talk to John Jesus didn't say
well when you get there just just
comfort John tell him how much I love
him Jesus didn't do that God doesn't
baby us sometimes we have to grow up I
was 13 years old we were celebrating
Christmas and you know how the
excitement is you just can't wait to
tear into those gifts so my brothers and
I we who gonna be first to open our
gifts and I can remember we would get
the same thing every year though let me
just put that out there you got a new
suit for church you got a new outfit for
school you got a new role some of you
are nodding your heads because you got
the same stuff I got and you got some
underwear you always have to have
underwear just in case you had an
accident need some of y'all know that
story right when mothers would say that
and we got socks and that kind of thing
and mom would make a feast for King but
I didn't get the bike that I want it so
I went I said mom I didn't I didn't see
the bike did I get a bike she said son
i'm sorry i wasn't able to get the bike
for you she says maybe maybe next time
she walked away kind of sad that she
wasn't able to do it and i walked behind
her and I said mom take the bike off
your list I said I'm doing some little
odd odd jobs for the super and some
other things I'll raise the money and
buy my own bike and my mother turned
around and she smelled maybe in that one
moment in that one occasion she saw the
maturity
in me I did buy that bike my grandmother
took me and I bought a used bike but I
had a bike and I was able to afford it
but here's what I want you to know this
text is hard because we don't see Jesus
babying John the Baptist's we see him on
his plan focus to do it Jesus understood
maybe John was looking for him to to
make things better to bring Israel back
to his glory days but it wasn't time
God's timetable and our timetable or two
different things amen jesus knew that he
would have to suffer and die before some
of this will come into being so he was
looking for John to grow up spiritual
maturity is about being lost and then
found it's about being broken and then
being made whole spiritual maturity is
about our openness and our willingness
to expose ourselves to God's plan and
when we do that his timing is very
different from out timing spiritual
maturity might be seeing things from
another perspective and thereby changing
our attitude spiritual maturity is
understanding that we may not always get
what we want but we do have what we need
spiritual maturity is trusting God when
life looks dark and dingy but somehow
you know that God will make a way out of
a no way spiritual maturity becomes the
gift of God to cope with any in every
situation it's an equilibrium in our
understanding a hope that enables us
to see around the corner and a grace
that gives us the capacity to help and
to serve others I believe the scriptures
is telling us to grow up to step out on
faith to trust me even when you don't
see the answers even when you don't see
a way even when it hasn't worked out the
way you think it ought to work out can
you trust me because I'll be faithful to
you Jesus is saying I'm not asking you
to be faithful and I won't be faithful
I'll be faithful to you in the season of
Advent he is a hope he is our joy he is
our peace and we ought to give him
praise Daniel would you come in lead us
in prayer lead us in prayer
let us bow our heads for prayer dear God
of Advent we come before you today
humble servants the journey of Advent is
long and the journey of Christmas is
exciting but it comes with its own
trials and distractions that we hide
behind we hide behind the things that
cloud our minds the stuff that we buy
and we often forget what Advent
Christmas is about but Advent and
Christmas is calling us to spiritually
mature to look outside of ourselves to
you for our hope our love our peace and
today our joy as we prepare ourselves to
come to the table to receive your grace
in the form of the bread and the cup we
ask that you be with those who cannot be
here this day to be with those who hurt
during the holidays to those that
struggle for family in Jesus name Amen
you
you
you
let us pray most gracious Scott I'm a
sinner saved by your grace I am a broken
vessel but I know all you have to do is
say the word and I shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will how'd this preacher behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they may hear you and not me
let the words of my mouth and the
meditation of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength in my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen today is the first week of Advent
advan is simply the first I mean the
four weeks of sunday before Christmas
Day and as a separate liturgical season
evan has his own areas of focus most of
you know the birth of Christ but it also
focuses on Jesus return I want to
challenge your thinking with the thought
are you ready are you ready somebody's
trying to find the church is just a GPS
going off here's
thoughts that I want you to ponder what
would you do if you knew what was going
to happen to you tomorrow would you live
differently if somehow some way it was
possible possible for you to look into
the future what would you do would it
change your behavior and I began to ask
myself this question if I knew the date
of my own death would it change things
would it help me to get my house in
order would it help me to get ready what
I move with more of a sense of urgency I
want to talk to you today about being
ready ready it means to be prompt to be
alert to be completely prepared in fit
condition for immediate action so my
question stands are you ready are you
ready are you ready for the coming
Christ when I was a little boy I used to
love the game hide-and-seek anybody else
play that game love that game now some
of you are in the country and you can
hide behind the the big oak trees and
stuff like that well I grew up in the
city we didn't have a lot of oak trees
you had to go to the park to see trees
and so we hid behind cards and alleyways
and things like that so we counted a
little longer than most most of you
probably counted to 20 one Mississippi
two to twenty we counted to 30 but I did
cheat can I be honest about it you know
when I was a kid you you went to the
wall and you did like this and you begin
to count and just before the number was
up and started trying to peek over to
see where folks were anybody ever do
that I'm the only one honest now I saw
two people in the back that
but the part that I would that I love is
you would say ready or not and you were
coming right rather they were ready or
not but it was just the joy of that and
as I was thinking about this sermon I
think that that's how it's going to
happen ready or not Christ is coming
amen I came across this wonderful story
from better life coaching blog it was
entitled a story about preparing for
success and it talked about to farmers
both lived on adjacent properties they
were in the middle of a long long long
drought it had left that land parched
and making it almost impossible to grow
crops the two men their names were Joe
and Hank so Joe looks over his fence and
hink was working on building a new dam
and joe says why are you doing that
there's no water and Hank says the rain
is coming Joe looked up in the cloudless
sky and shrugged his shoulders and he
walked away a couple of weeks later Joe
looks over the fence again and he sees
Hank working on a new irrigation system
what in the world are you doing what's
the point of it there's no water and
hang says the rains coming he said
that's what you said the last time but a
few weeks later large black clouds
started to fill the sky and then the
rain finally fell breaking the drought
with massive downfalls the potential to
change the future for all of the farmers
Hank looked out of his farmhouse window
and he saw the new dam the irrigation
system filled with precious water
ensuring that he would benefit from it
for a long time
in the future Joe was also relieved
seeing the rain but because he was
unprepared his property soon dried up
again a few months later Joe looks over
the fence and he sees Hanks luscious
farm and he sees it with envy why was he
so lucky he said to himself what's the
moral of the story be prepared be
prepared that's why our prayer life is
essential because it prepares us for
whatever we might face we don't know
what's going to happen around the corner
all we have is today but we need to be
prepared sometimes people find
themselves in difficult economic
situations unrelenting relationship
issues maybe even a divorce but let me
just say this sometimes divorces are
necessary or perhaps even the feeling
that God has abandoned you but here's
what I want you to hear get ready the
rain is coming the rain is coming God
knows and God understand are you with me
this morning listen to what the
scripture is going to tell us but before
I do that how many of you know this
particular fact in the New Testaments
260 chapters Christ's return is
mentioned no less than three hundred and
eighteen times statistically one verse
for every 25 pages of the Bible refers
to the return of Jesus Christ so in some
shape form or fashion make no bones
about it Christ is coming again
the question is will we be prepared will
we be ready listen again to the
scriptures that was right into your
hearing verse 36 it says no one knows
the day no one knows the hour not even
the Son of Man but only the father knows
in other words Jesus same stop all of
this theological forecasting you know
how people are we living in the last
days don't you see all the stuff that's
happened jesus said you don't know when
it's going to be I don't even know when
it's going to be but just know that I am
coming back that's what you need to know
and as you know that I'm coming back be
prepared verse 37 Christ will return
like the days of Noah it's Christ going
to come in there's going to be another
flood no but basically what it's saying
is that in the days of Noah people were
living doing whatever they wanted to do
they didn't want to heed any of the the
calls and so the floods came and wiped
them away because they were unprepared
so Jesus is telling us that we need to
be prepared so what must we do in the
meantime as we wait for Christ's return
verse 36 241 gives us the answer it says
to stay vigilant and awake knowing that
Christ will return we don't know the day
nor the hour but we know that he is
coming back first Thessalonians 5 and 2
says that he's coming like a thief in
the night so we must prepare ourselves
what must we do Luke chapter 12 verse 37
says it this way it would be good for
those servants who the master finds
finds them watching when he comes truly
I tell you he will dress himself to
serve and he will have them recline at
his table it will be good for those
servants who the Masters find them ready
even if he comes in the middle of the
night or towards daybreak but understand
this if the owner of the house had known
what hour the thief was coming he would
not have let his house be broken into
you you also must be ready because the
Son of Man will come at an unexpected
time are you ready Luke chapter 12 verse
35 says it this way be dressed in
readiness and keep your lamps lit be
like men who are waiting for their
master when he returns from the wedding
feasts so that he may immediately open
the door blessed of those say slaves who
the master will find an alert when he
comes 1st Peter verse 5 I mean chapter 5
verse 8 be of sober spirit be on the
alert your adversary the devil prowls
around like a roaring lion seeking whom
he may devour so what shall we do in the
meantime I think that we keep on doing
the unexpected gene things Jesus always
did what was not expected of him when
asked about greatness he told his
listeners to be like children innocent
and open and trusting listen to the
innocence of this child the father was
helping his son with his history
homework
and the father says when was Rome built
the sunset at night the father says why
would you say that he said because every
time I ask you for something you say
rome wasn't built in a day pit lane
magazine helps us it comes to our aid it
talks about the fact that we can learn
so much from our children and one of the
things one of the reasons why we can
learn so much from our children is they
don't have the same kind of fears that
we have do they you see this enables
them to love without condition because
that's adult something happens to us I
don't know when the corruption sets in
but when we even when we meet new people
we size them up we look at them we try
to figure out their whole economic
situation we try to figure out where we
think they're from we just size them up
kids are not like that kids you just put
them together and they'll play and they
have fun we could learn from our
children children trust in a children's
mind said God said it I believe it and
that's enough for me sometimes as adults
we always want to sign give me a sign
then I believe you Lord if you get me
out of this one how many of you know
what I'm talking about but children are
not like that God said it I believe it
and that's enough for me one of the
other things that we can learn about
from children is the fact that they have
a great sense of humor it'll take life
so serious sometimes I could have a day
that didn't go as plan but I come home
and in a few minutes my son it's got me
laughing and not forgotten all about it
but that's the beauty of children they
don't hang on to stuff like we do as as
adults
the other thing that says that children
we can learn from children is that they
really have open minds in open hearts we
say that as a logo open minds open
hearts but is it true one of the
beautiful things about children is that
they learn to be grateful for even the
small things one of the things I love
about my son is I always say he's got a
better heart than I had a Christmas time
or birthday times you give him a gift
and you say do you like it he says no I
love it thank you mom thank you Dad I
don't know that I've ever done it like
that but there's so much that we can
learn from our children Jesus says this
in John 13 15 for I've set you an
example that you should also do as I've
done for you keep on doing the
unexpected things what shall we do in
the meantime Philippians 2 verse 3 says
it this way do nothing from selfish
ambition or conceit but in humility
regard others as better than yourselves
let each of you look not to your own
interests but to the interest of others
let the same mind being you that was in
Christ Jesus in the meantime let's stay
open let's stay trusting and let's
become more childlike what shall we do
in the meantime practice radical
hospitality I came across this story and
I was really really touched by it you
know we've had all of these things about
police shootings and police hurting
people and using deadly force as the
first force but this store
he was powerful here's a mother on
welfare five children there's no food in
the house she went into the grocery
store and she opened up a a carton she
only took out five eggs she just wanted
to feed the kids they hadn't eaten in
two days the welfare check that she was
looking for it was lost in the mail
somewhere and she had to do something so
she went to the grocery store she put
these five eggs in her pocket but one of
them broke and as she got to the
register they called the police the
police came and when they came the story
becomes fascinating this police officer
he said ma'am why would you take just
five eggs she said that's all I needed
and she began to share her story and he
says look I'm not going to arrest you
but do you promise never to steal
anything again she says I promise he
said we're going to drive you home so he
and his partner drove her home they came
back to her house but this time they
came back with two truckloads of food
for her talking about radical love yes
he could
arrested her yes he could have
fingerprinted her and taken her through
the whole thing for five eggs but
because the love of God was in his heart
he decided to share grace with her it's
a radical way to love what I fail to
mention and maybe if some of you saying
it's not important but here's this
african-american woman trying to feed
the family don't know how to do it and
this police offer police officer who's a
Caucasian gentleman didn't see in color
he only saw a need and the woman when
interviewed said I've never experienced
this kind of love in my life radical
love that's what we ought to do in the
meantime it's not only to be faithful
not only to study our word but the
practice radical love Jesus says they'll
know that you are my disciples if you
love one another it makes all the
difference how many of you receive
radical love in your life how many of
you receive grace in your life how many
of you got something to be grateful and
thankful for because we've received
radical love we ought to give someone
else radical love it's a way to be
prepared it's a way to get ready Daniel
would you lead us in prayer
you
you
do your loving God
it's finally here our time of waiting is
finally here you have blessed us with a
time of inward preparation and
introspection as we wait for our coming
hope your son our Lord and Savior Jesus
Christ comes to us at the end of this
journey of Advent let us prepare our
hearts for this reception let us prepare
our hearts for the reception of your son
once again but also let us hear this
year's message of Advent with new ears
guide us to hear the message of hope
that is so desperately needed in our
world and in our lives today even though
we have just come from a day where we
count our blessings our world is hurting
there are those who count pains and
sufferings more than blessing there are
those whose hope wants to be snatched up
by the world there are those whose light
is on the verge of being extinguished
Advent is about preparing ourselves that
we may carry this light of hope into
their darkness Advent is about preparing
our hearts that we may show them love as
we light this candle give us the
strength to carry this light of hope
into every corner of these world as we
go outside of these walls for just as
Christ came into our lives let us go
into the world and carry Christ coming
out into it as the site
Bulls of the coming Christ let us take
shelter in each other but also let us
take shelter in prayer and especially
the prayer that our Lord taught his own
to pray saying our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come
ten listen now for the word of the Lord
be still and know that I am God I am
exalted among the nations
I am exalted in the earth the Word of
God for the people of God let us pray
most gracious God we thank you for this
opportunity to worship through the
preaching of your word father you know
that I'm a broken vessel but all you
have to do is say the word and I shall
be healed long enough to do your work
and to do your will
hi this preacher behind the cross that
your people might see you and not me
that they might hear you
and not me let the words of my mouth and
the meditations of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer
force in Christ's name I pray amen
I want to challenge your thinking with
the thought be still and know that I am
God be still and know that I am God when
Joshua my son was about three or four
months old somewhere in that bracket I
went to our bedroom and I told Natalia
that I wanted Josh were to spend some
father-and-son time with him and I did
the daddy rock how many have you done to
Daddy Rock and before I knew it he was
out cold and so I was going to go
downstairs and rock him a little bit
more just to make sure he was out and so
when I felt like he was out I laid a
blanket on the couch and I kissed him
took a few steps back like be still only
took her two steps away from him I went
and reached down for the remote
and I heard this boom how many you know
this is not a good story he had rolled
off the couch and fallen on the floor
now the ideal situation is when he fell
maybe he wouldn't have cried and I could
pick him up and I can could have
consoled it consoled him that didn't
happen he let out this scream I've never
heard before let me interpret that
scream for you
kill Papa that's what that scream said
my wife was upstairs I heard a move we
probably had about 12 to 14 steps from
the ground floor to upstairs she jumped
all of those steps and a single leap now
I'm a marine I've been in combat I've
been trained I'm a Leatherneck I'm a
devil dog I'm a jarhead
not much scares me but when I saw her
jump from the top to the bottom without
walking any of those steps I was scared
I'll be honest with you and she snatched
him out of my arms and she started
consoling him but the look she gave me
now you know they say cats have nine
lives I lost about five that day because
if looks could kill I was dead like
twice but it started out as a beautiful
story of him just being still right
there on the couch and it didn't happen
but being still is hard isn't it at
least it is for me being still is hard
because we want God to move anybody ever
said I'm gonna ask a private question
anybody ever said Lord you're moving too
slow anybody ever said that anybody ever
thought it okay and and sometimes we
want something to happen and it's not
happening and we don't feel that God is
moving so being still is hard Virginia
right in her blog she tells us why it's
so hard she said we've been conditioned
to feel guilty when we have to be silent
or still
we feel guilty because in the world that
we live in
being still even for the purpose of rest
of Prayer feels like wasted time in the
world that we live in
people are so conditioned to competition
high productivity and full schedules so
to be still feels like we're not doing
anything and we don't like it we want to
do something we want God to act now we
don't want to wait for God's timing I
want it now at least I'm honest
anybody else won't be honest anybody
want to be honest in the choir but she
goes on to say that this is difficult
for us because we're busy people we like
being busy she says even if we're stuck
in traffic we look for that cellphone
because we want to figure out why the
traffic is not moving it must be on the
news it must something must be happy
will text somebody will make a few phone
calls but we won't just be in that
moment the writer must always be
recording and reflecting the executive
must always be strategizing and planning
there's no such thing as being off in
this culture she says but being still is
the open door for soul work that is
painful but sometimes necessary you will
remember the story of Mary and Martha
Jesus comes to visit with them Martha
takes off into the kitchen she's making
some preparations and Mary is at the
feet of Jesus Martha gets angry she says
Mary where are you I mean coming in here
and help me we've got guests but Mary is
that the foot of
Jesus and then Martha says Jesus tell
her to come help me and he says smoth
are you concerned about a lot of things
but mary has chosen the better part you
see even in that story busyness didn't
impress Jesus do you know that we can
sometimes be spiritually busy and not
serving God
I've got a few nods we can be
spiritually busy doing stuff in the
church just doing stuff but we're not
really connected to the master it's just
work but the scripture says be still and
know that I am God so here's my question
before we can develop the spiritual
practice that requires stillness and
solitude we've got to ask ourselves why
is it that we fight God on this why is
it that we're so resistant to just trust
him what is it that gets in the way of
our solitude I want to let that sit with
you for a minute
but the second
part of this scripture says to know that
I am God I'm reminded of this powerful
story of Elijah that takes books takes
place in first Kings chapter 18 Elijah
the Prophet is going against false
prophets of Bel and there's this
challenge where he soaks down the altar
three times and then he prays to God in
God since fourth fire and it burns up
the sacrifice it burns up the wood the
stone the soil and even the water in the
trench it was a real powerful display of
God's great power but listen to the
prayer O Lord God of Abraham and Isaac
and of Israel let it be known today that
you are God and all of Israel and that
your servant has done all of these
things that that you have commanded him
so that these people will know that you
will Lord our God and that your
returning their hearts back to you
listen again so that these people will
know that you are God do you know him as
Lord is he Lord of your life
question that only you can answer so how
does God reveal godself
to us listen to Psalm 19 the heavens
declare the glory of God the skies
proclaimed the work of his hands day
after day they pour forth speech night
after night they display his knowledge
man could never create what God could
create man could never create what God
has created be still and know that I'm
God jesus said it this way and John
chapter 14 verse 6 I am the way the
truth and the life no one comes to the
Father except through me if you really
knew me you would know the father as
well from now on you do know him and you
have seen him if you've seen me you have
seen the father be still and know that
I'm God when I begin to think about
knowing God it seems like the more I
think that I know about God the greater
God is has there been anybody else
experienced like today you say God you
an awesome God you did this great thing
and then tomorrow he shows that he's
even more awesome than that that's been
my experience with God and what I've
learned is that we cannot put God in a
box because when we put God into a box
basically what we're saying is God this
is all you are and you can't be anything
more than what we've put in this box how
many of you know you can't keep God in a
box he's greater than all of those
things he's bigger than our
understanding bigger than our
imagination
was beginning to look at this be still
Daniel will appreciate this I went to
the Hebrew lexicon and as I went to the
Hebrew lexicon
I noticed that to be still was very
different than we might think
we might think that being still is is
looking out into nature and seeing how
beautiful it is and that's wonderful we
might think that being still is being
contemplative meditative maybe but the
Hebrew lexicon says it means to sink it
means to rest in and it means to let go
very different isn't it to let go and so
here's what I want you to do I want you
to close your eyes for a minute I
promise nobody's going to take your
wallet or your purse and TD jakes has
helped me with enough I paraphrase some
of these things but I want you to close
your eyes and imagine if you hear as you
you are listening to me what is it that
you need to let go of in your own life
if you're holding on to something that
doesn't belong to you it was never
intended for your life you need to be
still let it go and let God if you're
holding on to past hurts and pains you
need to be still let it go and let God
if the person you are with or used to be
with can't reach you right love you back
and see your worth be still let it go
and let God
if somebody has angered you be still let
it go and let God
if you're holding on to thoughts of
revenge to get somebody back be still
let it go and let God
if your candidate did not win this
election be still let it go and let God
if you're holding on to a job that no
longer meets your needs or your talents
be still let it go and let God if you're
stuck in the past Gerard is trying to
take you to a new level in him be still
let it go let God if you're feeling
depressed and stressed be still let it
go like God if there's a particular
situation that you are so used to
handling yourself and you hear God
saying take your hands off it then you
need to be still let it go and let God
you may open your eyes worry won't add
one single thing to your life worry it's
like being in the rocking chair
you're going back and forth but you're
really not going anywhere are you so
what is it that I want you to do I want
you to trust him same pastor
you telling me to to trust God and to
believe in his promises that's exactly
what I'm asking well how can I trust God
they say that he died for our sins he
was resurrected and ascended into heaven
how do I know that's true you're asking
me to believe stuff that can't be proven
over 500 witnesses saw Jesus Christ
after the rest the resurrection and then
they watched him ascend into heaven and
he is seated at the right hand of God
the Father advocating on our behalf if
you would trust the process of being
still of letting go and allowing God to
do this great work in your life he can
transform your life from this day and
what you're experiencing to a greater
place in him I'm so glad that he gives
us another chance that he's the god of
the second chance that they're chance
the fourth chance and every time we fall
it's the same God who dust us off stands
us up but today let us be still and know
that he's Lord would you take the hand
of the person next to you and then
you're gonna lead us in a word of Prayer
when I was thinking on the scripture
that Derek chose to preach on I was
attending a prayer service myself and
this idea struck with me here and I
wanted to share with you all today
during the prayer there will be three
times where silence will be kept and
during this time it's for you to lift
your thoughts lift your heart lift
anything you want to God silently or
aloud but in those times there will be
times for silence let us bow our heads
calmer of storms and of minds we have
witnessed so much change in our lives
this past week we have lived our lives
the best we could and we have come up as
a divided people under your created
heavens and on your created earth what
were words arise from your mouth these
day what thoughts cloud your minds that
divert your attention from God's will in
your life
we commune with you oh god this day to
help us reorient our lives from inwardly
focusing on ourselves to being outwardly
focused on our neighbor whose hand we
hold and on you let your peace and grace
enter our hearts and minds
has preached last week we are the church
that is called to be with each other in
laughter and in tears to be with each
other in darkness that we may bring the
light to each other and in joy and in
fear we are a family of God's children
and that by holding each other's hand we
are reminded of unity that brings us
here to this place the love that
connects us all our love of Jesus Christ
and the love of God let us remember this
unity as we pray the prayer that Christ
taught his own to pray saying our Father
who art in heaven
you
let us pray most gracious most gracious
god i am a broken vessel a sinner saved
by your grace and now in this hour i
know all i have to do is pray and you
say the word and i shall be healed long
enough to do your work and to do your
will what hide this creature behind the
cross that your people might see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me but the words of my mouth and the
meditation of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray
amen I want to challenge your thinking
this morning with the thought Lord and
increase our faith or Lord activate our
faith Lord increase our faith or Lord
activate our faith it's amazing how
little people know about the Word of God
especially here in America where
everything is at our fingertips you
could google it you could go to
different search engines look at as many
Bibles and different translations as you
want it's all at the fingertips and yet
there's so many that don't know anything
about the Word of God tonight show host
Jay Leno when he was doing his program
he used to have a program called man on
the streets and
this particular episode he went out and
to the community to ask questions about
the Bible he found a few young people
and he went up to two young ladies in
the first lady he said give me one of
the Ten Commandments and how response
was freedom of speech he went to another
and he says complete this sentence he
who was out sin and she says be happy he
asked a young man who according to the
Bible was eaten by well she said
Pinocchio you know when you're watching
this it seems funny at first and then it
seemed tragic that the faith is not
being communicated that the fave somehow
is not being taught I don't know about
you and I know that my story is not
everybody story but I could remember
sitting in my grandmother's lap while
she would read the Bible too many buddy
had an experience like that and it
wasn't that you just prayed at mail
times you talked about the Lord of
grandma dead anyway she talked about the
Lord but our world today has forgotten
what i love about
this passage the Apostles came to Jesus
and they said master give us more faith
seems like a reasonable request but
notice how jesus answered you don't need
more faith there is no more or less
faith to give you you've been given a
seed of faith and it's all that you need
to accomplish everything that God has
set out for you and then he goes on to
say suppose one of you has a servant and
that servant comes in from plowing and
tending the Sheep would you take his
coat set the table and say sit down and
eat wouldn't you be more likely to say
prepare dinner change your clothes and
wait the table for me until I finished
and then you may go and have your supper
does the servant get special thanks for
doing what's expected of him or her it's
the same with you when you've done
everything expected of you be a matter
of fact and say the work is done what we
were told to do we've accomplished it
some way i read i believe it was Romans
6 verse 3 to 7 and it says we are
baptized into Christ death his burial
and his resurrection some way i read i
believe it was ephesians 28 who says for
by grace you have been saved through
faith and that's not of yourselves but
it's a gift of God faith is a gift from
God
some way i read i believe that it was
John 5 30 listen to what Jesus says I
can do nothing on my own I judge as God
tells me they're for my judgment is just
because I seek not my own will but the
will of him who sent me Romans 10 verse
17 says so then faith comes by hearing
and hearing the Word of God so what is
the premise the premise is that we can
do anything of our own accord so what's
the premise is pretty simple there's no
one with the larger measure of faith
than another we all have the same seed
in us we've been given a seed of faith
and all we have to do is to activate it
so in other words God has already
equipped us with everything that we knew
need in order to get the job done and I
don't know what that might look like
whatever you might be struggling in your
personal life but you have a seed of
faith a measure of faith that's been
given to every one of us to accomplish
the work that God has set for us but
here's the catch that measure involves
believing in and entrusting in his
ability not our own so are you with me
to engineers applied at a company at a
computer company they had identified
identical qualifications so it was
difficult to determine which one they
were higher so the firm gave them a test
and they both did well except
they both miss the same question the
manager called the first candidate in
and explain the results of the tests and
then said I'm afraid we're going to have
to hire the other applicant why would
you hire the other applicant if we both
had nine questions I mean ten questions
and got nine right our choice is not
based on the correct answer but on the
question you both missed but if we both
miss the same question why would you
choose him over me well the answer to
question five on the test the other guy
wrote down I don't know and you wrote
down neither do i you see the first
candidate didn't have enough knowledge
to answer the questions on the test so
he sought by touhy sought to get by on
someone else's knowledge maybe sometimes
in life we can get by but sometimes you
need to have your own experience how
many of you here today would like to
have a doctor working on you that
cheated on this test and don't have the
real knowledge and skill to help you get
well anybody so it is likewise it's hard
to get by in this Christian walk if we
don't have a personal faith in God when
I was young I didn't have a fade I had
my grandmother's fade I believed
everything that she told me about God
was true but I didn't have a prayer life
I didn't read the Bible I didn't study
the Bible I didn't even go to church on
a regular basis but I had
my grandmother's faith but even she said
one day you're going to have to decide
who you're going to serve and no one can
make that decision but you no one can
make that decision but you the Apostle
Paul says it this way when I was a child
I spake as a child I did things as a
child but when I became a man I put away
childish things whose faith do you have
do you have a faith that's been tried
have you trusted God with your life with
your worries with the things that
concern you when I was a little boy
anything that would happen I would call
my grandma on the phone and I say
grandma this happened would you pray I'm
the only one I know I'm the only one who
called my grandmother Nancy to pray but
I needed to develop a faith of my own I
needed that seed to be activated in me
in this text Jesus looks at the
master-servant relationship by putting
us in the sandals of the slave and he
calls us unworthy servants and he asked
where is our humility
when I think about this text I asked
myself why is activating our faith so
difficult and one of the reasons I think
that it's difficult is because sometimes
when we've had a bad experience with
folks then we think that we're going to
have a bad experience with God so for
example you for example I called Daniel
I say Daniel let's get together daniel
says okay thursday is good and it
doesn't show up doesn't call then when
we finally get together there's no
apology so I reason to myself that I'm
not going to call Daniel again and
definitely not going to get together
with them and that's what we do
sometimes with God that we call on God
and maybe the prayer didn't get answered
the way that we want it maybe we're
still waiting on the answer but we get
frustrated and we don't come to church
they don't try to lead people to Christ
we just don't want much to do a god
sometimes we have more faith that when
we put our key in our car that is going
to start than we do in God sometimes we
have more faith and our best friend
helping us out of a situation than
trusting that God can make the
difference sometimes we have more faith
and getting a weekly paycheck to pay our
bills than trust in God with tithing and
believing that God can meet our needs
sometimes we have more faith in trusting
a doctor's diagnosis and treatment for
our illness
than we do in the one who made the body
who created the body for his glory we
need to activate our faith how do we do
that I'm going to ask you a question and
maybe at the door when I'm standing at
the back door you can tell me what your
first answer was do you know who holds
the record for the world's best free
throw shooting okay that's the question
now if you're thinking it's Michael
Jordan or Kobe Bryant a larry bird or
Stephan curry you're way off unless you
heard of a man by the name of Tom and
Barry back in nineteen nineteen
ninety-three this 71 year old podiatrist
set a world's record by shooting in
making 2,750 free throws in a row each
time he stepped up to the line he would
bounce the ball three times and swish he
would make he probably would have had
more shots but they had to close to gym
down but what was his secret when
interviewed he said very simply
concentration and practice the more I
read about it and looked into it the
more I realized that the only way to do
it was to do it over and over and over
again you have to have to be perfect on
all parts of the technique then you have
to give it all of your focus and
concentration then you have to put
everything else out of your mind and
then you you're ready practice
makes perfect I begin to think of ways
in which you already know that we can
activate our faith and one of the ways
that we can activate our faith is
through prayer and fasting another way
we can act up activate our faith is by
studying the Word of God you see the
Word of God is alive and it's active and
what it means to you today tomorrow it
might mean something else we can
activate our faith through struggle and
challenge none of us are free from it
but when we go through it and as we draw
closer to God it's a way of activating
our faith here's one way that I think
that we miss sometimes is good to look
at the examples around us and see how
folks are living I look in this
congregation I think about Shirley
Hudson she's a woman of great character
she could teach us something about
loving God and serving God with your
whole heart she has worked the poles for
over 40 years she has created and
handled the bereaving bereavement
committee since its conception she's
worked and supported chasm for many
years she's audit the books of this
church through many pastors if you want
to learn something about serving God if
you want to know something about what it
means to be faithful she's a good
example
our faith needs to be activated so
here's your homework I know you're
saying I came to church and I'm going to
get homework yes here's your homework I
want you to think about who is it in
your life that really begin to activate
the faith in you you saw something in
them and you wanted to emulate it you
saw them studying the Word of God and
you wanted to study you saw that they
will get on their knees and kneel and
pray and humble themselves and you
wanted to do it just like them you can
look at their life and see their
closeness to God and you have a desire
for it are you taking ownership of your
relationship with God or are you
expecting God to do all the work it's
just a question I can't answer it for
you only you can answer it here's four
things that I'm going to leave you with
charisse m alexandra is an educator and
author of in his presence she's a
graduate of Hampton University Hampton
Virginia here's what she says is how we
can activate our faith we've got to
eliminate distractions that's number one
have you ever tried to talk to somebody
who was doing something else I was
talking to a young lady and she had her
phone up like this and she was talking
to me and the thumb was moving like
right she was texting while she was
talking to me I could never do that my
thumb's just getting away but anyway I
wasn't impressed with that it was a
distraction and we need to eliminate all
distractions so that we can hear what
God has to say to us so let's eliminate
the distractions number
to get rid of all the excuses I don't
know I can I'm going to fail if I try
that let me ask a question if we've got
this see this measure of faith that God
has given everybody and it which means
that God is going to help us activate it
how can we fail don't you know that with
God on the inside we're unstoppable I
can do all things through who does what
we're unstoppable I can do all things
through Christ so let's get rid of the
excuses I'm too young i'm too old on to
fathom too skinny I'm to whatever it is
let it go number three expect to hear
from God what's the point of praying if
you don't even believe that God cannon
that God will have a sense of
expectation what's your attitude about
prayer I'm not talking about this one
hour on sunday morning but I'm talking
about when you leave here do you pray do
you study the Word of God do you read a
devotion do you have a devotional life
the student must trust that the teacher
is providing knowledge that's beneficial
you won't fail if you trust God if you
put one foot in front of the other if
you keep on practicing it doing it over
and over until you get it right but
expect to hear from God and her fourth
is execute what you've
receiving knowledge without applying it
it's not going to help you you've been
given a measure of faith a seed that
needs to be activated let us pray father
we love you so much and we thank thee I
thank you for the opportunity to learn
more about you father we know that it is
your will that no soul should perish but
you continue to provide a way for us
that we might live for you help us to
hear this message today and be like the
disciples not to ask that you might
increase our faith but that you might
activate our fate and help us to believe
that we have everything that we need in
order to do your work in order to do
your will wasn't Christ's name we pray
amen
what is faith what is faith there was a
man wanting to to look over the cliff
and to see how far down it was and as he
looked he fell down but while he was
going down he caught on to a branch but
he couldn't bring himself up because the
cliff was too smooth and it was about a
thousand feet below him so he yelled up
he'll help anybody give me some help and
he heard a voice that says Joe are you
all right he said yeah but I need who is
this he said it's the Lord he said you
mean like God he said yes is god are you
all right yes Lord I promise if you get
me out of this anybody ever remember
saying that he said lord if you get me
out of this situation I promise I'll go
to church I promise I'll be good I'll do
anything that you just get me out of
this situation the Lord says okay Joe
easy on the promises he says look we're
going to get you out of here but I need
you to trust me lord I trust you
whatever you tell me to do I'm going to
do it he says okay listen very carefully
Joe let go do what I said let go Joe you
have to trust me and you want me to let
go let go Joe I got you there was a long
silence and joe said help help is there
anyone else up there you see that's not
faith it's not trusting is it there's a
woman who went to the passion and she
had been going to this pastor week after
week and she says my husband said that
he would kill me if I keep coming to
your church and the pastor said yeah but
he hasn't done it let's just pray and
you'll be fine as the Lord kept you thus
far she said yes he has he says okay she
says but
but what he said but this time he says
if I go to your church he'll kill you
well there is another church on the hill
on the other side but you see that's not
faith is it there's a guy he's uh he's
walking the tightrope across the falls
he walked across that he ran a
prostitute it towed across it and then
he blindfolded himself and and walked a
wheelbarrow across the falls and you
could imagine the people are amazed and
then he says how many of you believe
that I can put a man in this wheelbarrow
and walk him across the falls one man
stood up he says I do believe he said
well come on sir come on up and get into
this wheelbarrow and the man just shrunk
his head and he got back into the crowd
you see that's not faith is it but what
is faith the Hebrew writer says that
faith is the substance of things hoped
for the evidence of things not seen and
we're going to talk a little bit about
that because I want you two to
understand this this whole idea of faith
I think that that we all put our faith
in many things if I were to ask what is
faith I would probably get all sorts of
answers I mean critics say that we
believe that faith is believing in
something in a heart that doesn't really
exist that's what critics say skeptic
says that we claim to believe in
something but we really don't have proof
the Bible says that without faith is
impossible to please God that's why we
got to hang on to that first verse faith
is the substance of things hoped for the
evidence of things not seen we put our
faith in a lot of things
some of us will leave here you put your
key in your car you'll crank it up and
you have faith to believe that your car
can take you wherever you want it to go
my first car that was really not true my
first car operated on band-aids and
faith not even gasbag dates and faith
and every time something went wrong is a
old Volvo station wagon and every time
something went wrong the man said four
hundred dollars so can you say anything
other than four hundred dollars but we
put our faith and we put our faith in
our doctors we believe that if a doctor
tells us to do something that we believe
he or she is right am I right about it
so the question is not about faith but
it's really about who we put our faith
in the Muslims put their faith in the
Quran Mohammed humanists put their faith
in themselves some religions put their
faith and good works and all of this is
fine but it can't save you as Christians
we know who we believe in we put our
faith in Jesus Christ and I know some of
you are saying well pastor are you
saying that Jesus Christ is the only way
I'm saying that the father says that
Jesus Christ is the only way so yes
Jesus Christ is the only way and you
know the story john three sixteen for
God so loved the that He gave His that
whosoever should not what should not
what but have what I didn't say it it's
in the Bible amen Jesus Christ is the
only way so the question is who do we
put our faith in
Hebrews chapter 11 says faith is the
substance of things hoped for the
evidence of things not seeing John 20
verse 29 says blessed are they who have
not seen and yet they believe how do we
go outside and we feel the breeze on our
face and not believe that God exists
this planet is so uniquely made I think
cat might enjoy this it's so wonderfully
made that it's can sustain human life
our planet revolves around the Sun 93 at
a distance of 93 million miles and if we
were close to Venus or Mars we would
cease to exist because it would be too
hot to live there are Venus and Mercury
Mars is our one of the closest planets
but the air is too thin it cannot
sustain life it's about 40 degrees below
zero and then the other planets is a
couple hundred degrees below zero so God
this this awesome God made the earth so
well that it could sustain life f F the
earth rotated too close to the Sun or
too close to these other planets just by
a fraction of an inch we would cease to
exist so god knows what he's doing amen
then look at yourselves we are so
wonderfully made I mean just look at us
our bodies our senses the sense of smell
touch eyesight
we're structurally made well you may not
feel like that when you get out of the
bed sometimes you hear that crack and
they know everything up but structurally
would make our nervous system our blood
system it is intricate but we are made
so well John Glenn as he was leaving the
earth and going into space and looking
back he says how could we not see that
God is real how can we not look at God's
creation and not marvel at it God is an
incredible God and he says it's
strengthens my faith could you imagine
that being an astronaut strengthens his
faith what about us today I know
sometimes when you say that God is the
only way some people we don't they don't
like that because they they think that
we're excluding somebody you know to be
a Christian and and not to be a
Christian we exclude him but the Bible
says whosoever will okay so we're not
excluding it's an open invitation for
whoever would come to God amen so we're
not excluding anyone but the question is
how do we exercise that faith are we
trusting in God I mean God's got a great
track record listen to Helen Stein
arrives
she calls it the mover of mountains
faith is a force that is greater than
knowledge power or skill and the
darkness defeat turns to triumph if you
trust in God's wisdom and will for faith
is a mover of mountains there's nothing
humanity cannot achieve if we have the
courage to try it and if we have the
faith to believe so who do we put our
trust in
we put it in God amen we live in a world
where they're broken promises we live in
a world where fifty percent of the
marriages fail everybody's not like you
Shirley who can have how many years you
got and how many years y'all got all
right how many years you got back there
28 and holding all right but we live in
the world where half of those marriages
fail people start out how many years
y'all got 53 all right how about about
you 35 Sam Young I got 19 all right but
in the Bible there are seven thousand
promises and God has been faithful to
every single one of them isn't that
awesome that's how much he loves to us
that's how much he cares because he
wants us to have faith in him to believe
in him to trust in him and that's what
we got to do with the word of god we've
got to trust the word of God for our
lives amen you know what I really love
about the Word of God that is active and
it's alive and it's dynamic and it's
fluent have you ever read something one
year you come back to a two years later
you read it again and it means something
else to you anybody that's the beauty of
the spirit that's the beauty of the Word
of God that it continues to work in us
to shape us to blow us up to mature us
so that we can be the people that God
would have us to be that's what I love
about the Word of God that's what I love
about preaching is just finding those
gold nuggets faith is the substance of
things hoped for the evidence of things
not seen you might not be able to see it
but you got to believe it he's faithful
you may not know when that healings come
but you got to believe it he's faithful
amen you may not know when the money's
coming but you got to believe it he's
faithful God does not lie he cannot lie
it's not a part of God's character do
you trust him do you trust him let us
pray would you join hands with the
person next to you
most gracious God you are truly an
awesome awesome God and Father you find
ways to help us to trust you with all
things pray today Lord that something
will be said that might be meaningful
that we can hold on to it maybe today
even as we sit at lunch and we have our
meals that we might reflect upon your
goodness to our family that we might
reflect upon stories that the families
have shared where you have been faithful
to each and every one of us sometimes we
just need to look up maybe when we're
sitting on our porch and we hear the
birds sing we'll say we serve a great
god we serve a god who knew how to put
all of this and to order spoke it into
existence and we'll just feel your power
from that Lord maybe we some of us are
going through various trials but we can
find a biblical character who's also
gone through some trials and where they
have trusted you and maybe we will say
yes when we've been desirous and saying
no to do more but father we need to
trust you pray that your spirit might
come today and mature asst
and then lured by your word we pray that
you would feed us till we want no more
father we thank you for the music
ministry that Margaret has brought to us
we thank you for Janet watts and for
caller Wooten we thank you because we
know that even though we are in
transition we are in good hands we thank
you for all the leadership of Providence
and we pray your hand upon it and so
Lord we give you this our concerns our
Joy's we ask that you would just bless
us all and let you will be done force in
Christ's name we pray amen
that everybody wanted to hear and it was
going really well they actually sold out
not only was the theater packed to
capacity but they had sold every ticket
you could imagine the ethos in thusi
azum people are excited they're waiting
to hear this singer saying until the
stage manager came and took the
microphone on the stage and says ladies
and gentlemen I know you came to see
so-and-so but due to an illness he will
not be performing you could imagine the
the deflate and all of a sudden folks
started feeling frustrated they felt
duped that they had come to see the
singer and now they're going to have to
settle for someone else the stage
manager said we found a fine substitute
they didn't even want to hear his name
probably didn't even actually hear who
the standing was the showing on and the
stand then gave the performance of his
life it was awesome he put all of his
energy into it it was beautiful but when
the show was over it was an
uncomfortable silence no one clapped no
applause just silence and a little boy
stood up in the balcony and he says
daddy I'm proud of you you did a
wonderful job dad you're wonderful and
when he said at the second time the
audience began to applaud sometimes it
would be nice to hear somebody stand up
and say I'm proud of you isn't it
wouldn't it be nice if someone stood up
and said you were wonderful you did a
great job we don't hear it often enough
and so your question is why did i bring
this little story up because just like
that little boy was a cheerleader
for his dad the Apostle Paul is a
cheerleader to the Galatian community
listen to what he says he said stand
firm and he says you know crisis set us
free stand firm and do not submit to the
yoke of slavery that you were once in
God has a plan for you he sets you free
don't go back to doing the things that
you used to do if God delivered you from
cigarettes don't go back to smoke it if
he if he delivered you from you know an
argumentative spirit don't go back to
doing it if he delivered you from
fighting don't go back and say this one
fight will do me good don't do that
whatever God has set us free from let's
leave it in our past they met and Paul
as the cheerleader he's saying to us he
says don't use your freedom to give in
to self-indulgence because the self is
never satisfied there's never enough
self-esteem for self there's never
enough wealth for self there's never
enough self always once more amen Paul
is saying don't fall into the trick of
going back to those old behaviors Christ
has set you free for something far
greater i want to share two stories with
you but what I want you to listen for in
these stories is that God doesn't leave
us where we are he raises us up so that
we can become more
amen
my friend Robert Davis football player
from Portsmouth Virginia broke all of
the records in Virginia he went on to
Missouri Southern State and he played
his first year he rushed 4,000 yards no
one scored as many touchdowns it's him
but while he was there his roommate
brought him to church now let me explain
something Robert Davis is
african-american his roommate is
Caucasian and he invites him to this
church where they met this pastor Pastor
Houma Martin now Robert were tell you
that houma Martin wasn't the greatest
preacher but he was a lover of people
you see the difference
sometimes
we can talk a good game but can you live
it and what he would say to you is that
home or Martin love people and that's
what came through and so he's going to
this church now on a consistent basis
he's a new believer and so he was
supposed to meet the pastor in the
evening when he gets to the church
there's some men in the church talking
about his roommate saying why did his
roommate bring Robbie Davis to this
church and then the question was what
are we going to do about it he said man
I was mad I was ready to fight ten
people I wanted to just burst in that
room and I just wanted to fight he said
because I was hurt so from wherever he
was standing the pastor could see him
the other folks couldn't see him but the
pastor knew he was there excused himself
in the meeting and he went out and he
says robert i know that you hurt he says
but let me work with this coming back
and see me in the morning and so Robert
left came back to see him the next
morning and they began to talk about it
and pray about it Homer Martin was so
instrumental in loving people that he
helped Robert and Robert received his
call to ministry and then he said robert
i want you to preach your trial sermon
next week robert davis says yes I'm
gonna get down boy I'm gonna nail him to
the wall i'm going to hit him right
between odds now I got him I'm gonna get
all of them those people who talked
about he said they didn't want me here I
want to talk about it he said five
o'clock that morning God woke him up and
God said robert i want you to preach on
love I want you to love these people
this is the scripture that God gave him
first John three sixteen to eighteen we
know love by this that he lay down his
life for us and we ought to lay down our
lives for one another
how does God's love abide in us and
anyone who has the world's goods and
sees his brother or sister in need and
yet refuses to help little children let
us love not in word or speech but in
truth and in action that day Robert
Davis preached love he never told
another soul what had happened that
night because he handled that situation
properly three other african-americans
on that football team gave their lives
to the Lord and those three also went
into the ministry what I like about
Roberts story is that he didn't pay back
evil for evil amen what I like about
Roberts story is when he began to quiet
himself and listen to the instructions
of houma Martin to go back home and and
they then began to pray for those
brothers who were misguided it was only
then that healing began to take place
what I love about Roberts story is that
God didn't leave him right where he was
but he raised them up so that he can be
more in Christ I was just talking to
Robert Davis he was my chaplain in the
Marine Corps and he says Derek I thank
God for that experience because if I had
not had that encounter he says what kind
of Naval chaplain would I have become
because in the Navy he says I got to
minister to people from all walks of
life thousands of people he had the
opportunity to minister to you see he
didn't take his freedom and pay back
evil for evil he took us freedom and he
was obedient to God
I came across this other story of a
Korean pastor Reverend Paul Cho had one
of the largest churches in America and
he prayed that prayer that some of us
pray have you ever prayed that prayer
Lord I'll go wherever you send me
anybody ever prayed that prayer you
better be careful what you pray for and
he prayed this prayer because things
were going well as church he has one of
the largest churches in the world and
God told this Korean pastor I want you
to go to Japan Japan God you got to be
kidding me you know i hate the Japanese
I'm not the person to go God send
somebody else not me I load the Japanese
you know what they've done to my family
Lord anybody ever had a yes Lord but
anybody ever had that and he didn't want
to go but finally he decided that he
would go and he would preach to these
thousand of Japanese pastors and he goes
and I could imagine you know how we do
as Christians right we just when God
tells us to do something and we really
won't don't want to do it can't believe
God is sending me to Japan I got to go
preaching these people didn't know I
don't like them anyway but anyway I'm
going to go you know how we do it
reluctantly and we call that obedience
right so Reverend show he he goes he
doesn't know what to say because truly
there's hate in his heart and so what
happens they call him up and I imagine
there's a slow track to the podium and
when he got there and he looked out over
these pastors in the room there was a
long pause
and then he said I hate you I hate you
for what you've done I hate you for how
you treated my people I hate you for how
you treated my family I hate you and
then he just fell on the podium and he
weeps uncontrollably but one then two
and then a hundred until every Japanese
pastor came to the podium but they arms
around him and said forgive us
forgive our people for what we've done
to your people forgive us and one by one
could you imagine a Thousand apologies
something happened in that room it was
magnificent it was magical tears on both
sides there crying hugging one another
and then it happened Reverend show
grabbed one of the Japanese brothers and
says I love you
I love you only God could have done that
to change its heart from hate to love
only God could have done that what I
love about this story is that God didn't
leave him right there in his own hatred
in his own prejudice but he raised him
up so that he can be more in Christ amen
what I love about this story though
reluctant and his obedience there was
healing for everybody amen
when God shows up great things can
happen how many of you know it to be
true when God shows up great things can
happen you see we could never get to the
fruits of the spirit without going
through something sometimes God is
working on us to work something out of
us or maybe in us so that we can
experience the fruits of the spirit love
and joy and peace and patience and
faithfulness and gentleness and goodness
and kindness and long-suffering and
self-control we could never get to those
places if we don't want to allow the
work of God to happen in our lives
paul is saying to and you know what we
need to do we need to submit unto God
you know what we need to do we need to
crucify the flesh
self can get in the way some of us we
want to go higher spiritually but maybe
self is in the way maybe there might be
some anger we need to deal with maybe we
need to have some forgiveness before God
will take us to that next level I talk
to families and it's always interesting
it's in every family if we're honest
that there's dysfunction in every family
we can go back and look at the Bible any
family you want to talk about I'll find
a dysfunction okay there's this function
in every family nobody's perfect hello
we're human beings but I talked to
families and you know what they say we
don't talk to that side of our family
they got all the money and they don't
want to talk to us ya ever hear stuff
like that here's what I'm saying to you
we can't get to love and joy and peace
holding on to stuff are you with me it's
baggage some of us have been holding on
to it so long now is luggage are you
with me but Paul is saying look what's
waiting for us love and joy and peace
and faithfulness and gentleness and
goodness long-suffering and self-control
how many of you want that for your life
Paul's our cheerleader and he says God
has it for you it's yours for the taking
you've been set free to have it just
don't go back amen would you take the
hand of the person next to you
and the reason why we take the
the next to us is we never know with the
person next to us is going through so we
hold hands so that we can touch and
agree let us pray most gracious God your
love is absolutely amazing that you can
look out on us as sinners and and love
us to wholeness that you are a great God
and that you have good gifts for your
children scripture says all good gifts
come from above
father thank you for your word today
thank you for the Apostle Paul who
leaves us with a beautiful lesson that
we can be more in you I think of my
son's prayer Lord make me better and
then in asking he says I want to be more
tomorrow than I am today I want to be
better
father I pray that you would help each
and every one of us if there's a step
that we need to take so that we can
enter into your joy and your peace then
help us
Church that's a light to this community
thank you for every heart that is here
lord I always give you things for our
sick and I'll shut-in who are mighty
blessing to this church they can't be
here but yet they still participate with
their prayers and their gifts to this
church followed our prayers that you
might bless them and meet them right
where they are we know that you're
omnipresent you can be with them and you
can be with us simultaneously heel was
broken in our lives restore the joy of
our salvation help us to be the people
that you've called us to be help us to
be hungry for places to serve you help
us to take one for the team Lord for
those who are grieving today we pray
your blessings upon them only you can
chase away the dark clouds of grief and
Lord for all of the joys we truly give
you thanks we thank you for blessing
Margaret and Eric we thank you for their
great honeymoon and bringing her back we
pray a blessing upon them pray a
blessing upon the leadership of this
church and more than anything we pray
that your will might be done and now let
us pray that prayer that Jesus taught
his disciples our Father who are in
heaven hallowed be thy name
you
most gracious God I'm a sinner saved by
your grace but I know that all you have
to do is say the word and I shall be
healed long enough to do your work and
to do your will lord I pray that you
would hide this preacher behind the
cross that your people will see you and
not me that they might hear you and not
me let the words of my mouth and the
meditation of my heart be acceptable in
thy sight O Lord my strength and my
Redeemer force in Christ's name I pray I
want to challenge your thinking this
morning with the thought ready aim fire
ready aim fire today is Pentecost and
Pentecost is designated as the fiftieth
day after Passover it is called the
feast of days but is also called the
feast of harvests something really
special happened on Pentecost the
disciples were empowered to do great
things in his name it was on this day
that the church was born born in a blaze
of glory born in a blaze of fire where
is that fire where is that blaze of
glory in the church this day seems to me
that the church is bogged down between
cavalry and Pentecost they've gone to
cavalry for pardon but they have not
been to Pentecost for power you've heard
people say or business owners say is
sure hard to find good help these days
but it's not so with us as Christians
because the day we get to hear about the
ultimate comforter that comes to to aid
us the ultimate teacher and guide that
comes to live within us Emmanuel means
God with us Calvary means God for us but
Pentecost means God in us ready aim fire
when
when I was in the Marine Corps boot camp
in Beaufort South Carolina one of the
last stages that we had to go through
was the rifle range and I was not a very
good shot let me just put it out there I
was on target one in the off hand and it
shouldn't look like that you know it
should be really smooth where you put
your face along the sides you breathe
properly but this is what I look like an
offhand God's honest truth I was on
target one and I shot on target 10 and a
drill instructor yelled cease fire cease
fire you've got to be kidding me private
parson are you on target one yes drill
instructor I'm untuk one how in the
world did you shoot on target ten he
says when we go into combat don't take
any rifle ammunition you just throw
rocks you understand me but you know
when I went through boot camp and they
talked about the kneeling position the
prone position but i didn't get
everything that they got in the offhand
I didn't look like a polished marine
standing there doing this in them but I
look like a scared marine really not
knowing what to do next and this is the
disciples there in the upper room it's
ten days after Jesus has ascended and
they don't know what to do they're all
gathered in one place and something
incredible happened the promise that
Jesus had given them all of a sudden
they hear the wind it was a mighty
rushing wind the Hebrews call it the Rua
let me hear you say that rua I million
saying you like you mean it like a
marine say rula
much better yah motivating me and they
heard this and it says that it was like
fire dropping on them as they began to
speak in different languages as the
spirit prompted them the theologians
call it an ontological experience an
ontological experiences not when you're
reaching out for God but is when God
reaches out for you and it captures us
don't worry God is speaking even through
the phone and the Holy Spirit captures
us and it focuses us to do a great work
and this is what happened to the
disciples you see prior to this the
disciples were afraid of just about
everything they were afraid of the
Pharisees they were afraid of the
stature seas they were afraid of death
they were afraid to really live this
life that Christ has called us to live
they were afraid to take a risk anybody
ever been there have you ever been
captured by your fear that you said I
really want to step out there and I want
to do it but I'm not sure I should do it
anybody ever been there and this is
where the disciples were but on this day
they had this ontological experience and
it changed them forever imagine with me
if you will that they are there not
knowing really what's happening to them
and yet they remember it probably what
Jesus had told him that the Holy Spirit
would come and the Holy Spirit would
live inside of you and it would teach
you all things of how to serve me my
friends that same holy spirit lives
inside of each one of us amen you know
sometimes when we see a plane take off
we can stand in watch planes to
golfer ever anybody and we we love to
see that power of the plane lifting up
and just going into flight but I want to
say to you that when Jesus ascended he
went to heaven without a spaceship
without a spacesuit now that's power
amen and the same power that lives in EM
lives in you and I but the question is
what will we do with all of that power
will we live for him or will we continue
to walk around in fear I love the story
as is talking that that Peter he
understood with this whole experience
meant Peter understood that no more
misdirection for him no more failure for
him no longer will he walk in timidity
or lack self-confidence no longer will
he show fair and being non aggressive
about the things of God you see he had
an ontological experience that changed
him forever he went from the mundane to
the miraculous he went from plight to
power
Peter preached a message he just ceased
the moment scripture says that people
came and was asking these questions
about whether they were drunk early in
the morning and Peter just seized the
moment he wasn't even in a sanctuary but
he preached a message that pricked the
hearts of many what I love about Peter
is that when he had this ontological
experience taught him how to hit the
bullseye it taught him that he could
repeatedly hit the bullseye for Christ
what's the bullseye it's the hard hearts
of those who don't know who crisis
what's the bullseye the Bulls I'd are
the folks outside of these doors who
don't have a relationship with God
that's the bull's eye and we carry in
our back pocket a message that we can
give hope to people who are in darkness
we can bring light to people who are in
darkness because we have that spirit now
living inside of us it's an amazing
thing for us to have hope for us to be
able to share that hope with a hurting
world I think that's what Pentecost says
Pentecost as I will be with you and
you're never alone and that you can do
this great work that's before you even
though it might look scary you can do it
because what the scripture says I can do
all things through Christ that
strengthens us right so he didn't say
something
he didn't say there'll be a few things
you'll be able to do he says I can do
all things through Christ that
strengthens me Pentecost is saying to us
ready aim fire you know I never became
an expert with the rifle but I got a
roommate who was a sniper and a blessing
I told him of my dilemma I told him that
I was not a very good shot and so we
went to the rifle range just he and I
and hundreds around he would say ready
aim fire and I would fire and I think
that this is true of us that we can aim
our love low we can aim the love of
Christ really low we can shoot it over
people's heads kindness goodness
gentleness but we can also a min and
sink it right into the hearts of those
who need to hear it amen and that's what
I've decided to do it's not to walk in
fear but to do this job with the rest of
my life with the last breath that i have
is hopefully to give hope to somebody
else because hope has been given to me
it's a powerful thing remember this
power that fell on them is the same
spirit that lives in us the pic the same
power that helped Jesus to ascend into
heaven is the same power that you and I
we have it so the question is will you
aim high or were you aim low or will you
let the Holy Spirit direct your aim
I pray that you do so in Jesus name
would you take the hand of the person
next to you let us bow our heads for
prayer
dear Lord of the spirits flyer today is
the most special day when we can next to
weekend experience next to the
resurrection of your son Jesus Christ
today on this day of Pentecost we
celebrate the gift of your Holy Spirit
that is active in our lives and in the
lives of one another gathered in this
place we come before you asking that you
may warm our hearts our minds our souls
and thus to your service we ask that you
light a fire in us that we might go out
into the world and spread the glory of
your message for this is the true root
of Pentecost the Holy Spirit is poured
out on we who have gathered here not
simply to remind us that Jesus is with
us but for the purpose of empowering and
equipping us to be witnesses to the
grace of Jesus Christ for those outside
of these walls we ask that the same
guiding empowering and equipping spirit
be with our denomination as our leaders
meet in Portland Oregon we ask that you
allow us to be slow to anger patient and
listening and respectful of our brothers
and sisters in Christ como spirit come
into this place and warm are hardened
hearts help us to remind ourselves that
our journey in faith does not end in
ourselves but is complete in others we
are here to help foster each other in
Christian love give us the will the
courage and the love to do so come o
spirit and rest on our minds and our
souls that our whole selves are
dedicated to you now with a fiery
confidence of the disciples and of
Christ
let us be bold to pray the Lord's Prayer
found printed in your bulletin our
Father who art in heaven hallowed be thy
name kingdom come Thy will be done on
earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us in the asst not to
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom the power
you
will lord I pray that you would hide
this preacher behind the cross that your
people might see you and not me that
they might hear you and not me let the
words of my mouth and the meditation of
my heart be acceptable in thy sight O
Lord my strength and my Redeemer force
in Christ's name I pray amen quite often
when we hear a movie star and actor or
celebrity say I love you to the fans do
they really love the fans do they really
know the fans or are they just grateful
that we go to their movies and we buy
their CDs and we buy all the stuff that
they're offering it's about the money
instant it is about dollars and cents
but I wondered if we stopped buying
their stuff their shoes their clothing
items perfumes if we stopped buying it
would they still say I love you I think
not but today I'm not talking about
platonic love I'm not talking about a
love that has conditions today I want to
challenge your thinking with the thought
love of a different kind a different
kind of love childs window talks about
this and he says love of a different
kind he shares this story of a farmer
who's getting ready to post a sign that
he wants to sell some puppies and just
as he gets the sign in a little boy she
shows up tugs on his overalls and he
says mr. I really like to buy one of
those puppies and the man said well you
know these puppies come from a fine line
and
and they cost a great deal the little
boy says I've got 39 cents is that is
that enough he said no son that's not
enough money the little boy put his head
down and then he raised his head back up
again and he said I only have 39 cents
can I take a look the man said all right
and so he says Molly come here Molly and
here comes Molly out the door and four
little furballs following her and the
little boy's eyes danced with the light
but just as he was watching them there
was a little late comer peaked his head
out and he sort of hobbled down the
little ramp trying to keep up with his
other brothers and sisters and the
little boy watched him closely and he
says I want that one and the man said
son you you don't you don't want this
one he said yes I do I want that one and
he says you know you run fast you
probably play hard this little puppy is
he's never going to be able to do that
you don't want this one little boy lift
up his pants leg and he showed that he
had two metal rods on each side of his
leg that went down into a special boot
and he said you see mr. I don't run so
well either and this puppy needs
somebody who's going to understand him
the man was so touched by what he said
he gave him the puppy free of charge I
like that story because sometimes I
think that we too don't run so well amen
some of us who are over 35 that's what
I'm talking to for those of us who over
35 we don't run so well anymore and it
may be sometimes we get
tired of trying to keep up with other
folks but my friends there's some good
news today and the good news is that
Jesus has all power and god the father
says to Jesus what are you won and he
points to each one of us and he says I
want that one he overlooks our faults
overlooks our weaknesses and he says
give me that one isn't that good news
today that he loves us with a love that
won't let us go and i tell you i'm so
glad about it when i think about this
particular text you can think of it as
Jesus valedictory address or his
farewell address now what I like let me
just say this what I like about the
lectionary is that sometimes the
lectionary doesn't always move forward
sometimes it moves back so that we can
capture a story because maybe when we're
going through the seasons we might miss
something and so it came back to this
particular story there in the upper room
Judas has already betrayed Jesus and has
left his presence and they're loving
remaining disciples and of all the
things that Jesus could share with them
he shares this text I'm going to be
glorified the father will glorify me and
I'll be glorified in him but it's three
things that I I want you to remember
that you love one another as I have
loved you that you love one of another
he says it a second time
and then he says they'll know that you
are my disciples a third time if you
love one another somehow this is the
distinguishing mark that marks us as
committed folks that marks us as true
disciples if we love one another notice
it didn't say if you put up with
somebody hello notice it doesn't even
say if you like them but it says if you
love them they'll know that you're my
disciples I tell you as I was thinking
about this text and thinking about the
way that I have been loved in my life
it's it's an amazing thing to me I have
a friend by the name of Walter boy we
grew up together and Walter loves me so
much and even back then I couldn't even
have a good fight cuz Walter would jump
in and fight for me and I got into a lot
of fights but it wont to loves me that
much that he would put himself at risk
just for me I'm the Godfather of all of
his children we're not wild and crazy as
we were when we were young but he loves
me with the love that overlooks my
faults anybody know what I'm talking
about and he looks at my heart and it's
amazing thing it's a love of a different
kind I want to share with you my other
friend Frank Archibald Makka teeny who's
from South Africa we met an undergrad I
went to a Jesuit college st. Peter's
College and we both went on this silent
retreat we talked the whole time I just
want you to know that and
we went from friendship to family and
I'm the Godfather of all this up his
children but it's amazing thing to be
loved like this I have a friend Robert
Davis my chaplain in the Marine Corps
met him in 1984 and the first thing he
said to me was are you running from a
call how did he know I was running from
a call and he was very instrumental in
to preparing me for the ministry we talk
every single day on the phone my natural
father was not a part of my life growing
up probably past five years old but to
have somebody invested in you within
this way it's an amazing thing you see
God has given us friendships and
friendships can be like jewels they can
bless you because these people want to
encourage you they just want the best
out of you but when you add love to it
it becomes powerful something that you
can't ever buy to be loved like that
anybody know what I'm talking about and
that's how God loves us I want that one
I want that one father I'll take that
one and that's what the father does I
was reading this story it was of a man
who said that he went outside and he
just wanted to experience nature and
when he went outside he was really
touched by the beauty of God's creation
and he began to sort of praying and talk
to the Lord and the Lord asked him this
question do you love me man said you're
my Lord and Savior yes I love you and
the Lord said but what if you were
handicapped would you love me then the
man said he thought about it he he
looked at his hands he looked at his
legs he started thinking about all the
things that he wouldn't be able to do if
he was handicapped and he thought about
how he had taken for granted his arms
and his legs he said Lord even if I
didn't have arms and legs and if I was
handicapped in some way I would still
love you and the Lord said what if you
were blind what if you couldn't see my
creation would you still love me it's
like what a question um Laura I mean how
could I love it if I couldn't see it but
the man thought to himself there are
many people were not able to see and
they have a great relationship with God
so he says yes Lord even if I couldn't
see I would still love you and so God
said what if you were death you couldn't
hear would you still love me I can
imagine the guys where is this going if
I couldn't hear the sounds if I couldn't
hear God's Word what I still love them
maybe God is telling me that the Word of
God ought to be in my heart it's not
just in my hearing
but it's in my heart Lord I would still
love you this story goes on in it and
it's a few more examples but I don't
want to bore you with it but God says to
the man he says you know I noticed that
the only time you really pray it's when
things are tough but when I've blessed
you you don't really give thanks I've
even send people your way so that they
would serve with you and you push him
away but lots of why do sometimes when
you pray your prayers are so selfish why
is that why haven't you taught your
family about me why haven't you shared
the good news that salvation is for all
why have you kept that to yourself and
the man said there were no words only
tears he said lord please forgive me and
God says hey that's where grace is
applied you're right but let's work on
it together and this is what God said to
him I will never leave you neither will
I forsake you
when there's joy in your heart they'll
be Joey in mind when you hurt I hurt
I'll always be there for you even until
the ends of the age I'll be there with
you my friends God's love is a love of a
different kind amen because God sees us
overlooks our faults he overlooks the
times when we're not faithful to him and
he tries to keep us on that path just so
that we can be in relationship and and
be able to talk to us but the kind of
love that God loves us would it dust us
up and it props us back up and says try
again I love that kind of love anybody
it's a kind of love that won't let us go
it's a kind of love that can fill you
can feed you all at the same time it's
not the kind of love that that that we
offer sometimes conditional love if you
do this for me I'll do that for you if
you buy my products i love you know God
loves us with a gobby love with the
gobby love he loves us period nothing we
can do about it but i think that the
kind of love that God loves us with he
wants us to love others notice he says
it three times
they'll know that you're my disciples if
you love one another let us be thinking
about that love let us think about our
actions even as that man had prayed and
had that conversation with God it
touched me it made me think about
faithfulness and unfaithfulness about
areas of my life that I need to do
better places where i need to ask for
forgiveness Daniel would you lead us in
a word of Prayer would you join hands
with the person next to you you never
know what the person next to you is
going through you
our second reading comes from the second
book of Timothy chapter one verses three
through seven I am grateful to God whom
I worship with the clear conscience as
my ancestors did when I remember you
constantly in my prayers night and day
recalling your tears I longed to see you
so that I may be filled with joy I'm
reminded of your sincere faith a faith
that live first in your grandmother Lois
and in your mother Eunice and now I'm
sure lives in you for this reason I
remind you to rekindle the gift of God
that is within you through the laying on
of my hands for God did not give us a
spirit of cowardice but rather a spirit
of power and of love and of
self-discipline may the Lord had a rich
blessing to the reading the hearing of
God's Holy Word may it sink deep down
and bring forth much fruit the Word of
God for the people of God faith pass it
on faith pass it on I'm gonna ask a
question if you had to pass down the
faith to your children to your
grandchildren what would you say what
would you tell them forgiveness means
the heart if you had to pass down the
faith to your grandchildren what would
you tell them you are a unique creation
of a good and loving God created for a
good purpose
wonderful if you had to pass on the
faith to your grandchildren what would
you tell him
I would say actions speak louder than
words amen
my Sarek Sarika dad would say I can't
hear what you're saying because what
you're doing is too loud came across
this story by theologian dr. RC sprawl
he said that when baseball season was
over he wanted to stay in shape so he
ran track and field and he did the 400
and he says I wasn't the fastest on the
team
but my job was just to run a clean run
and not drop that baton that's all I had
to do so I ran the second leg he sat
down the first guy that's the guy
he's the sprinter he's gonna run as fast
as he can and give us the biggest lead
from the starting blocks and again my
job was to run do the best I could but
just don't drop the baton the third guy
was fast he would make up the time that
I lost and the fourth guy was so fast it
was like a blur he said and so there we
were we were competing against other
schools competitively and the first
runner took off he did well I knew the
baton was coming back for me I took the
pathan and I took off and the whole time
I'm saying don't drop it don't you drop
this baton you just run as hard as you
can don't you drop it and I made the
pass to the third runner and he took off
and we can see him running but as he got
to the back stretch of the field
he stopped and walked off and laid on
the grass we didn't know what happened
we didn't know whether he was hurt maybe
he hurt his ankle maybe pulled a
hamstring or something so we took off
running to
the infield to see what happened and
when we got there we expected to see him
in some serious pain but when we got
there he looked passive and we said are
you okay
he said yeah I'm fine what do you mean
you find you stop running the race is
still going on what happened I just
didn't feel like running anymore
so dr. Sproul says I might as well tell
you that my thoughts in that moment were
not spiritual they were very Conor and
me and the other teammates began to
admonish him how could you do this to us
all of our training we put everything
into this moment and you messed it up
for us how could you do that too much
has been invested in you and why would
you do this
but dr. RC spruill said I've often
thought about that in relationship to
our duty as a Christian that we're
supposed to take the truth that's been
handed down to us by our ancestors in
the Christian faith and we're to run
with it not Amos Lee but we're supposed
to press towards the goal so that we can
hand off the faith intact and
uncorruptible to the next generation
most of us when we think of young people
we say that they're the leaders of the
future but how many of you know they're
the leaders right now what are we going
to leave behind a significant question
what are we going to leave behind for
the next generation this
is so powerful because the Apostle Paul
is giving charge to Timothy and his
final epistle what you have heard of me
in the presence of many witnesses
I entrust to faithful men who will be
able to teach others also Paul is facing
imminent death
but of course the question for him who's
going to do the missionary work
who's going to continue the faith that's
the question for us this morning we look
at the the newspapers in we almost want
to close it the news come on and I'm
just ready to flick to another channel
but I think about what are we handing
off I'm so grateful today they're not
here but Greg Elliott and Mary Elliott
and Donna Smith and sherry Jeter who
meet with our youth every Sunday because
they want to make sure that they're
passing on the fade I didn't let you get
away I want to hear what you've got to
say what did I do with that that might
if you had to leave something to your
children about the Christian faith
what would you leave well that's a big
question but I think one of the main
things that we try to emphasize to our
kids is to live life not just in light
of right now but in light of eternity so
that everything that they're doing right
now impacts the life beyond and that
kind of long-term perspective and the
realization that God is aware of what
you're doing and what you're doing
matters
right now and in the future I think just
brings a sense of you know inner
conviction that if we'll listen you know
not just them but me and for Jake as
well to stop and listen and say is this
what the Lord wants me to do now and in
the future is this something that I can
be proud of is this something that I
know is as important so I think having a
conviction for now and and what is to
come is a really important thing to pass
on to our children amen thank you so
much there was a family that had a
priceless fair a family heirloom it was
a vows it had been passed down from
generation to generation and one day as
the the mother and father went out
shopping they left their teenager
teenagers home and you can kind of get
where this is headed I saw your faces
and the the teenagers were playing
around and they broke the vows when the
family the mother and father came home
the teenagers met them at the door
and he said mom and dad we've got some
bad news
you remember the ferret family heirloom
that has been passed down from
generation to generation our generation
broke it in one sense we don't want to
be like that we want to make sure that
when our children our adolescents our
young adults leave our homes that the
faith is intact amen unbroken uncorrupt
ready for them to carry on the work that
they need to carry on once again it
seems that the world is is upside-down
look at the newspapers what's happening
in the news some people don't know what
to believe or what to teach our children
but what I like about the text today
that this is not the case and this text
Paul is writing to his most loyal
disciple he's writing to Timothy
but Paul wants to encourage him and to
also to thank Timothy for being
steadfast in the faith the faith that he
learned from his grandparents the faith
that he learned from his mother let me
be clear and let me be a bit more
emphatic in this text this might be
Paul's last letter to anyone Paul is
writing from Rome a prison cell and he
knows that his trial is not going well
no one has come to defend him no one has
come to a system no one has come to
offer support and his trial is not going
well but when I read this text I thought
isn't it interesting that the Apostle
Paul is not giving complaint but him
major cannot imminent death his major
concern is passing on the faith you see
Paul had set up many churches had many
disciples and not every person he
disciples stayed in the faith but he's
writing to Timothy and he's telling
Timothy I believe in you I believe in
you because you know the faith story
your grandparents shared it with you
your mother poured the faith into you
and I know that you can lead us well
Paul is entrusting Timothy to carry on
this great work
are we ready to pass on the faith
to the next generation you know I've
been in churches where I've seen some
parents who wouldn't come to church
themselves but would just pull up to the
door and drop their kids off and just go
about their business and then they'd
come back and they'd pick their kids up
how we to teach them the faith like that
now I'm glad they're in church don't get
me wrong but do we think that our kids
are gonna get it by osmosis that somehow
if they just hang around us they're
gonna get it now I believe some things
are caught rather than taught but I
think that when it comes to the
Christian faith we have to be more
intentional than that and we want our
kids to understand what to believe and
why we believe what we believe
amen this is serious business I know the
scripture seems so simple at first
glance but my question is what are we
passing down
I hope we're passing down that God has
the ability to help us when the world
seems upside down I hope that we're
passing on what it means to be a
Christian that this journey is not
always easy but it is indeed worthwhile
I hope that we're passing down as
Christians not to meet hate with hate
but to meet hate with love and grace are
you listening this morning we can't
behave like the world behaves as
Christians we don't pay people back the
Bible says
vengeance is mine and I will repay thus
says the Lord being a Christian it's not
easy but it is worthwhile Jesus says I'm
gonna ask you to do something I know
you've been taught that if somebody does
something to you you to forgive him
three times I know you've been taught
forgive him seven times but I say
seventy times seven
how many people have offended you 490
times Jesus is asking us to do the hard
thing I'm reminded that dr. Martin
Luther King was 26 years old commanding
the attention of the nation and the
world was in a bad place what would he
say when he mounted the podium would he
tell the people to pick up a stick pick
up an axe and fight back no that's not
what he said but he says this the most
potent weapon that we have is
non-violence somehow non-violence that's
something to the enemy he says it
exposes his weakness it weakens his
morale and he just doesn't know how to
handle it but if he doesn't beat you
wonderful but if he beats you you
developed the quiet courage of accepting
blows without retaliating if he doesn't
put you in jail wonderful nobody with
any sense wants to go to jail but if he
puts you in jail you go into that jail
and transform it from a dungeon of shame
to a haven of freedom in human dignity
and even if he tries to kill you
you developed the inner conviction that
there's something so dear some things so
precious some things so eternally true
that they're worth dying for and I
submit to you if a man or a woman has
not discovered something that they're
willing to die for in a sense they're
not fit to live our faith is worth dying
for my friends Jesus died so that you
and I might have a right to the Tree of
Life so that when we die we could expend
eternity with a God who loves us how
many of you can say Amen
Jack Carey yesterday at 2 o'clock would
home to be with the Lord absent from
body but present with the Lord his faith
lies in the fact that God Canon that God
will what are we passing on to the next
generation I hope that we're passing on
that thy word is a lamp unto my feet and
a light unto my path for all generations
to come
the Bible says man shall not live by
bread alone but by every word that
proceeds out of the mouth of God when we
pass on the faith what are we telling
them I asked this question to some of my
my other preachers and chat Robert Davis
says I said what would you tell your
children he said I would tell them that
God is real that God is not just a myth
up there who sits high and looks low but
that God cares about them and that he
wants a relationship with them I'll talk
to
this week and we were iron sharpens iron
we were talking about our sermons and
and what to preach and how we were going
to do it and I said Isaac what would you
say to your kids he said more than
anything salvation is for you salvation
is for you when I looked at this text
what is it that we want our children to
know and what is it that we want them to
believe look at verse 5 with me I'm
reminded of your sincere faith of faith
that first was in your grandmother Lois
and in your mother Eunice and now I'm
sure that it lives in you
he's entrusting it to him
proverbs 22 verse 6 says train up a
child in the way that they should go and
when they grow old they will not depart
from it if you've got a wayward son or
daughter or a wayward grandchild keep on
praying keep on trust and keep on
believing are you with me don't give up
on them don't give up on them it's our
job as adult Christians to teach the
faith we ought to teach our children the
Lord's Prayer make sure that they know
it have it deep down we ought to teach
them Psalm 23 make sure they know it and
they've got it down we ought to teach
our children the 10 commandments and why
God gave them we ought to teach them how
to delight in the Word of God I want our
children to fall in love with the
scriptures that's all I'm saying we
ought to teach them the faith stories
our children need an anchor to hold on
in troubling times how many of you know
what I'm talking about
the question is what do we teach them I
came across court need to fail she's a
spiritual blogger and she talks about
passing down a faith filled life not a
trial free life and she says do you
remember the first time your child was
hurt or in harm's way she said I could
remember that my oldest kicked a bright
bouncy ball went upside down and landed
on his head in concrete I remember when
my youngest got her feelings hurt by a
friend and cried real tears not whiny
tears
I watched my kids hurt many times and it
stinks my knee-jerk reaction it's always
to protect to hover to block and
basically do anything to prevent my
children from feeling pain but the same
goes with their faith I want them to
fall in love with Jesus and frankly
never walk away while at the same time
never experiencing hardship and when I
realize I love them too much to desire a
trial free life then I remember my
biggest moments of personal and
spiritual growth they were they came
during spiritual trials trial bringing
faith to life has been a great privilege
I'm encouraged that we don't have to
live a perfect life to pass down a faith
filled life let me just say that again
I'm encouraged that we don't have to
have a perfect life to pass down a fate
to filled life
our role is simply to teach them what we
already know and to continue learning
and sharing more day by day as we grow
listen you can make a difference even if
you're only seconds ahead of your
children in your own faith journey your
fear and your uncertainty can show them
God's grace and God's mercy your
mistakes can teach them forgiveness your
strengths can shine a spotlight on God's
blessings and gifts your daily ordinary
tasks can become opportunities to reach
the hearts of your children faith are
you ready to pass it on to the next
generation that's a question let me
close with the lyrics from this song by
Kurt Kaiser pass it on they usually sing
this song that campfires but listen it
only takes a spark to get the fire going
and soon all those around you can warm
up to its glowing that's how it is with
God's love once you've
did you spread your love to everyone you
want to pass it on what a wondrous time
is spring when all the trees are budding
the birds begin to sing the flowers
start their blooming
that's how it is with God's love once
you've experienced it you want to sing
it's fresh like spring you want to pass
it on I wish for you my friend
this happiness that I found you can join
in it matters not where you're bound
I'll shout it from the mountaintops I
want the world to know the joy of
friends that has come to me I want to
pass it on faith are you ready to pass
it on to the next generation maybe
you'll listen to all seaspar all that
that's our job that we're supposed to
take the faith intact uncorruptible and
hand it to the next generation are you
ready
Barbie ves I want you to come and close
my sermon in a word of Prayer
shall we pray precious Heavenly Father
we are so thankful to you this morning
for this day for this place and for
these people father we're also very
thankful for the message that you've
given us today may it know at our inner
being until we recognize the
significance of its meaning we need to
be ready ready for ourselves and ready
to pass it on father I pray that you
give us the strength and the wisdom and
the courage to take these next steps as
we've been directed this morning for it
is in you that we trust it is in you
that we have given our lives and it is
in you that we entrust the lives of
those who come after us these things we
pray in the name of your precious son
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ
pray that prayer that Jesus taught his
disciples our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against them
lead us not into temptation but deliver
us from evil for thine is the kingdom
and the power and the glory forever and
ever
