bow our heads for a quick prayer dear
God of Resurrection you have given us
the glory of this Easter morning that we
may witness the resurrection of your son
Jesus Christ we have come this day from
the depths of darkness and despair from
the sealed tomb of death and separation
today we have come with the hope of
being resurrected with the hope of being
in full communion with you in Jesus name
Amen again I don't know what y'all
expecting better than that but I'm gonna
do my my best well today's Easter in
case you didn't know and if you have any
doubts just look at my bow tie today is
the day that marks our completion of the
season of Lent and Holy Week and thank
you all to everybody who made it happen
Allison Derek everybody y'all can sleep
after the sermon was done today is the
day which we walk out of church smiling
and seeing the bright colors of spring
budding outside in our smoldering 87
degree day that is going to be today
today we hear joyful singing and playing
of some of our best and happiest songs
today my personal favorite of them all I
finally get to eat those cadbury eggs
that have been staring at me since the
beginning of Holy Week lint and Easter
are some of my favorite holidays right
next to Christmas and that's kind of a
given when it comes to that the young
adults inspired me though to make a
connection that I have not really
thought a lot about before the young
adults proved to me that the imagery and
the symbolism of all three holidays go
hand in hand as the saw
says Mary didn't know that she would
find her son the same son she laid in a
manger the same Sun that the three wise
men came to see Mary didn't know that
she would find her son on a cross
looking down upon her but as a mo Adam
Hamilton says as soon as she beheld her
son on the cross she thought of
Christmas she thought of her son's
miraculous birth as the young adults
have taught me we can't have Easter
without Christmas and without Good
Friday today we reflect on the extreme
happiness of Christmas and Easter but
also we reflect on the extreme darkness
of Good Friday and Holy Saturday the
matter of the fact is that these polar
opposites of Lent and Easter speak to
the heart of the human condition there
are moments in our lives when we are
dazzled by the light of Easter we are
smiling from ear to ear and we say God
is right here with me and it is amazing
but there are also moments in our lives
where we are smothered by the darkness
of Good Friday and Holy Saturday and we
ponder the question where is god I can't
find God anywhere the feelings that the
young adults created on Good Friday
demonstrated this emotional heaviness
darkness becomes so real that it takes
the place of the person sitting right
next to you we heard the slam of the
stone that was rolled over the entrance
to the tomb with the body of our Lord
and Savior inside and we are left with
nothing but emptiness in the pit of our
stomach and in our hearts we are locked
inside of that tomb with Jesus in
today's reading as much as we like to
hide it brush right over it the minute
amiss central to the story of the
resurrection the tomb represents death
and defeat the tomb represents isolation
and fear the tomb represents the
imminence of the collapse of who we
think we are if we look around us we see
our modern-day tombs all the time and we
walk among them we see tombs of
unchecked and senseless hatred that
cause people to be violently erased and
displaced we see the tombs of unsayable
greed that causes some to have it all
and a city block over from them others
are starving we see the tombs of
overwhelming pain and despair that cause
some to wonder is God even there the
profound nature of Good Friday is that
we are left with a feeling of being
enclosed in these tombs wherever and
whatever they may be with no hope of
ever coming out of them but the more I
got to thinking about the symbology of
these three holidays I thought about it
like this good friday paints the sky
black in which the star that was over
the stable of Bethlehem hung and Easter
is a reminder that God will not let us
do well in these tombs without that
light this is why the word to open in
this scripture this morning has such
significant meanings for us today the
action of rolling the stone away the
opening of our tombs or as I'm thinking
of it the bringing in of the light is
not
not done by us from the inside it is
done by God from the outside God is not
content with our human constructions of
separation and degradation God is not
with us to being by ourselves locked
away without hope it is out of God's
love it is out of God's desire to be in
relationship with us that God rolled
away the stone because jesus lives these
tombs that we have constructed for
ourselves whatever that may be are not
the final reality of God's beloved
creation the way I see it is that Jesus
did not only validate the experience of
our location in our own tombs but Jesus
challenges us and provides the hope that
these constructs of death of separation
of isolation are not the end our human
condition allows us to shut people out
allows us to shut people in tombs by
building highways over them by building
highways over tenth of people
experiencing homelessness our human
condition allows us to place ourselves
inside of our own tombs by thinking
we're not good enough for God the
doorway to these tombs are opened by God
through God's love and we can be set
free from the hold that they have over
us this is why we celebrate today with
such magnitude with all the singing and
all the dancing all the smiling all the
buying of the new clothes because we are
celebrating god's loving action of
opening our own tubes and setting us
free
from captivity from the darkness that is
so overwhelming inside of them but he
did that so we can be eternally united
with God this morning provides the hope
that God can and will open whatever tomb
you find yourself in this morning
provides the hope that God will light
whatever darkness you are sitting in
this morning provides the hope that you
can overcome whatever is separating you
from God this morning live into that
happiness living to that resurrection
witnessed this morning by the rolling of
the stone away through Jesus's death and
resurrection that not only placed Jesus
in a tomb but also the resurrection
destroyed that tomb God has vindicated
and has affirmed this life and this
world and our experience of this world
and all of its pain is hurt and it's
darkness but also God has given us hope
to every single one of us that this is
not this world is not the end there is
something more for us for us there is
eternal life and praise be to God
now we come to a time of prayer this
morning I would like everyone to think
of that happiness and hold on to that
happiness this morning hold it close and
smile hold it close hold hands with it
make it your own let us bow our heads
for prayer god of eternity you are
present with us because of Jesus is
rising from the dead you persist in
lifting us to new life through Jesus
every day we celebrate this day the gift
of eternal life that you have bestowed
upon us out of your love in this moment
we bring to you our prayers for this
world and all the tombs that we walk
among all the tombs that we have
witnessed and all the tombs that the
ones that we care about have experienced
whether they whether these prayers be
supplications for your mercy or praises
for your glory you know what is written
on our hearts on our souls and on our
minds we ask that you give us the
strength to carry your word of Easter
your word of hope into our world that is
fraught with chaos and pain and darkness
give us the strength to show the world
our resurrected lives and may our lives
be the light of hope in the midst of the
darkness of pain as we witness to the
resurrection of Jesus Christ our
Lord let us join together in one voice
and pray the prayer that Jesus taught us
to pray saying our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come Thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom and the power and the glory
forever amen
this is a great week Palm Sunday for
those of you who are visiting with us we
are grateful for your presence truly
delighted that you're here probably at
the end of the service i'm going to ask
a few would raise your hand because we
have a gift for all of our first-time
visitors today it's a it's a great day i
love doing this with daniel we've got
Daniel for another two weeks before he
leaves and we were talking on the phone
and so this is our last time to tag team
if you will and so today Daniel Nye will
tag team let us pray most gracious God
we love you we thank you for this day we
thank you for the grit the gift of your
love and of your grace and we pray today
that you would indeed use me and Daniel
to your glory pray that your will might
be done pray that you would hide both of
us behind the cross that your people
might see you and not us that they might
hear you and not us let the words of my
mouth and the meditation of my heart be
acceptable in thy sight O Lord my
strength and my Redeemer force in
Christ's name I pray amen one Sunday
morning a woman walked into a large
sanctuary and she was headed for the
front she went right up to the front but
this uh sure was paying attention he was
watching her and just before she sat
down he says you don't want to sit there
she said no he said no our preacher is
is really doesn't deliver a good sermon
and he's kind of boring and you don't
want to sit right in the front and the
woman looked a little appalled she says
Do You Know Who I am he says no ma'am I
do not know who you are she said I'm the
pastor's mother
he said well ma'am do you know who I am
she says no I do not he said praise the
Lord and he took off running my question
for us this morning is do you know who
Jesus is and when Derek called me and we
started talking about this sermon and he
posed that question to me they got me
thinking about my studies that I'm doing
now amongst my studies an identity I
came across this article that says do
you know who you really are by Patrick
Austin he says something that I wrestled
with constantly he says something along
the lines of I know this is a painful
thought and for sure a very frightening
one but people will do everything
possible to defend their paradigms and
their old beliefs why because the core
function of our subconscious is to keep
us from chaos which we automatically
associate with pain suffering and what's
called an identity crisis not knowing
who you are is one of the most chaotic
most painful realizations that one could
ever faced I shared that not only
because I study construction of
identities but also I see an identity
problem and the text this morning in the
text this morning the people celebrate
Jesus's triumphal entry based on who
they think Jesus is but they have no
clue about who he really is who they
really are
so this morning Daniel and I want to
challenge your thinking with the thought
who was Jesus who was Jesus he is the
Promised One Galatians 4 verses 4 and 5
says it this way but when the set time
had fully come God sent his son born of
a woman born under the law to redeem
those under the law that we might
receive adoption as sons and daughters
Jesus his name means yahweh is salvation
from the beginning of biblical history
God has promised a savior for fallen
humanity and the fullness of time God's
time a star appeared in the East wise
men from the east came came from Persia
and they recognized this bright star as
the fulfillment of prophecy the prophecy
is this a star shall come out of Jacob a
scepter shall rise out of Israel numbers
24 and 17 this was the prediction of our
new king listen the appearance of this
star and the birth of god's son the Lord
Jesus Christ is the combination of
thousand years of waiting of
anticipation they were waiting for just
anyone they were waiting for Jesus who
is Jesus Jesus is the fulfillment of the
covenant promise made to Israel but when
Derek asked me who is Jesus I thought to
myself Jesus is unique it is impossible
to treat Jesus as a merely another man
or character in the Bible the Gospel of
John opens by saying that this unique
person named jesus is the word who
existed with God
since the beginning since eternity
started jesus said that this unique
person became flesh and lived and walked
among us if you were to say Jesus was a
good man a wonderful teacher and
effective preacher a great healer a
philosopher or a humanitarian you would
be right and there's plenty of evidence
to support these claims but I pause it
that you could be simultaneously wrong
because Jesus is so much more than that
Jesus is exactly who he says he is the
eternal son of the Living God the savior
of the world so the question remains who
is Jesus let's look at his life he was
raised in Nazareth and he worked at his
father's trade he was a carpenter but
you will remember the story when Jesus
was just 12 years old he went into the
temple and he was able to converse with
those who were educated that scribes and
the Pharisees the teachers of the law
and remember when he said to his parents
I must be about my father's business
John the Baptist's acknowledged Jesus as
the Lamb of God who takes away the sins
of the world and then in John chapter 1
verse 29 and a voice from heaven
confirmed this is my beloved Son in whom
I'm well pleased the Heavenly Father
acknowledges who Jesus is then it became
his time to launch his ministry
scripture says that he was filled with
the Holy Spirit and he began preaching
the kingdom of heaven is at hand most
people didn't even know what he was
talking about but they understood Jesus
teaching as
powerful as scandalous because he spoke
with authority that they had never heard
before I mean Jesus says things like
this if someone has a heavy load and
they want you to go a mile with them go
further if someone needs your coat give
it to them if someone slaps you on the
cheek offer the other they had never
experienced this kind of teaching ever
before Jesus wasn't just an ordinary
teacher he not much more now let's talk
about one of my favorite topics let's
talk about the miracles of Jesus at
Jesus's command blind eyes were opened
the deaf could hear and the paralyzed
could walk he healed all sicknesses
thousands were fed with just a few
loaves of bread and a handful of fish
Jesus walked on water calmed raging seas
and even raised the dead yes Jesus was a
miracle worker but that wasn't the
reason why Jesus was sent by God Jesus
was sent from and by God to help us
understand God's love and to help us
experience God's grace in the ways that
we have not yet known so this brings me
to today and I posed the question back
to Derrick and I said Derek help me
understand what is Palm Sunday as it
relates to God's love palm sunday is the
day that we celebrate Jesus's triumphal
entry into Jerusalem one week before his
resurrection one week before his
resurrection as Jesus entered the holy
city
he neared the culmination of a long
journey towards gal gathi he had come to
save every one of us to save the loss to
die for our sins now was the time this
was the place palm sunday marked the
start of his real true ministry palm
sunday was the beginning of the end of
Jesus work on earth so Daniel what can
you tell us about Palm Sunday the story
goes on to say that Palm Sunday began
with Jesus and His disciples traveling
over the Mount of Olives Jesus sent two
of his disciples ahead into the village
of bethpage to find it animal for him to
ride into the city on they found an
unbroken cult of a donkey just as Jesus
said they would and when they untied the
Colt the owners of that cult began to
question him and the and the disciples
responded with the answer Jesus told
them to answer with they responded with
the Lord needs it amazingly the owners
were satisfied with this answer and let
the disciples go with their donkey it
says they brought the donkey to Jesus
and they threw their cloaks on it and
Jesus sat on the donkey maybe as a
congregation you're wondering why why
not a stallion or steed but a donkey let
alone an unbroken on trained donkey can
you imagine sitting on a donkey that has
never been ridden the donkey represented
a symbol of peace as Jesus ascended
towards Jerusalem scripture says large
crowds gathered around him
this crowd understood that he was the
Messiah what they did not understand was
that his kingdom was very different from
theirs the crowds actions along the road
gives rise to the name palm sunday they
spread their cloaks on the road and they
waved palm branches and spread the
branches on the road in similar fashion
in second Kings chapter 9 verse 13 king
j who was given this similar treatment
the royal treatment at his coronation
derek is right in bringing up this
quote-unquote first palm sunday but also
that people of king j who honored him
verbally as well it says the crowds went
ahead of him and those shouted Hosanna
blessed is he who comes but in our story
today on that Palm Sunday the people
honored Jesus in the same way the crowds
that went ahead of him shouted Hosanna
to the son of David blessed is he who
comes in the name of the Lord hosanna in
the highest heaven and their praise of
Jesus the Jewish crowds were quoting not
only this passage in this story but also
psalm 118 which acknowledged the
prophecy of Jesus is coming Daniel what
you shared is very significant yet it
begs the question what was the crowd
really looking for in a messiah were
they looking for Jesus to rescue them
politically were they looking for Jesus
to rescue them nationally and to our
congregation and to our guests I asked
what are you looking for this morning
what do you stand in need of did you
know who Jesus is even though they lay
down their coats and waved their palm
branches in the air to honor Jesus the
crowd did not understand yet that Jesus
was headed to the cross and that they
would put him there Jesus did not come
just to do miracles or just to be what
they wanted him to be or what we want
him to be Jesus came to die for the sins
of humankind out of love every year it
is so tragic and it's very painful to me
to see the crowd in our passage see
Jesus but not recognize who Jesus is so
in turn to you I posed a question this
morning who do you think Jesus is if you
had to give pause from the busyness of
your lives and you were to ask Jesus to
do something for you what would you ask
then I would push you further and ask
you is that all Jesus is we preach this
message this morning not just because
it's Palm Sunday but that we want you to
catch what's really going on in this
text and we don't want you to be
ignorant or spiritually blind to be
spiritually blind is not to see Christ
and not to see crisis not to see how God
spiritual blindness is a grievous
condition experienced by those who don't
believe don't believe in God they don't
believe in the Holy Spirit and they
don't believe in god's word on this Palm
Sunday Derek and I want you to know
something whereas Derek always says we
want you to know that you know that
no something we want you to know that
God is love in our world of hurt and
pain in our world of suffering never was
there a more important declaration made
than this that God is love see God
doesn't just love in the verbal sense
god is love yes his nature in essence
our love love permeates his very being
and infuses all of his other attributes
because God's very nature is love he
must and will demonstrate that love
since love is God's natural essence and
you said that he must demonstrate his
love by lavishing it on undeserving
people I'm one of them I don't deserve
his love anybody else at least I'm
honest today but because of his great
love he lavishes on us you know the
scripture says that God will rain on the
just as well as the unjust God's love is
so different when I think about God's
love it's not a sappy sentimental or
romantic feeling rather its agape love
the love is almost a self-sacrificing
love God sent His only begotten Son into
the world to die for you and I that we
might have eternal life scripture also
says Christ died for us while we were
yet sinners while I was doing my dirt he
died for me that's what it says and so
today we want to give you an opportunity
to respond to God's message
by praying and by glorifying God to the
best of your ability as Daniel leads us
in prayer would you bow your heads for a
moment of Prayer Almighty God on this
day your son Jesus Christ entered the
holy city of Jerusalem and was
proclaimed our King and in a similar
fashion we spread our garments and palm
branches along his way along his way
that leads to his death God we ask that
you be with us that we may embark on
this journey that leads us to the cross
but also to the bright light of Easter
morning in our world of pain of hurt of
seeing Syrian refugees hurt more in a
world where buses run into crowds of
people in a world and where people in
Egypt are bombs while attending church
we ask that you give us this love that
we may carry it outside of these walls
into a world that is in so desperate
need of it we look around our world and
see our creation moaning we see our
creation being abused with acts of human
greed and selfishness grant that we who
bear these Paul branches not wave them
in political or national salvation but
wave them with love that we may ever
hail Jesus as our Savior but also to
wave them in your honor of love
and as jesus prayed let us pray let us
all join together in the Lord's Prayer
in one Accord saying our Father who art
in heaven hallowed be thy name thy
kingdom come Thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven give us this day our
daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation but deliver us from evil for
thine is the kingdom and the power and
the glory forever
rain down on us and be with us in this
place share your love among us that we
may walk your way listening for your
voice whispering to us in the darkness
hold our hands and lead us through the
season of lint as we await the passion
of Good Friday and the glory of Easter
morning amen well the lectionary was not
easy on me this morning it gave me 40
verses to read and I feel like I need a
cup of water now after reading that but
we have a tough passage this morning has
a lot of layers and has a lot of avenues
and rabbit holes that we can venture
down but we have to remember this is the
whole point of John's writing style John
is concerned with layering symbolism
having every time that somebody reads a
text from John that they draw a new
meaning from it but if we were to
compare this story to the other healing
stories of people who are experiencing
blindness and the synoptic Gospels the
only aspect of John's story that they
share is that Jesus does a miracle in
front of people to a person who is
experiencing the physical loss of sight
everything else is different all aspects
that drive the narrative and John are
not found in this and the Synoptics for
example the detail of the man being
blind from birth the fact that Jesus
uses mud Jesus orders a man to go
somewhere else in order to be cleansed
the interrogations of the Pharisees and
the questioning of the crowd are not
found in any of the synoptic Gospels
representing a healing of a person who
was blind so keeping this in mind we
have to
except that these details are there for
a reason and provide us with a clue to
one message that John is letting us here
today the plot is set in motion by a
traditional seen transition in verse 1
Jesus and the disciples were walking on
a road thanks for that lovely
description John but we presume that
Jesus and the disciples are walking to
Jerusalem because as John with the other
synoptic Gospels everything climaxes and
the crucifixion right before the
resurrection the disciples
characteristic to the role as students
of Jesus asked the question about a
person experiencing blindness in their
entire life begging for help of any kind
the disciples are asking a theological
question about the role of sin in a
person's life and this is a very
uncomfortable subject for many to talk
about talk about sin in their lives
because it has a negative connotation to
it but the disciples are going to teach
us a very important lesson their
question is based on the retributive
notion of sin which was a common theme
in the Hebrew Bible and of that time
period you did something wrong something
bad happened to you it was a
cause-effect style of that belief they
asked they asked Jesus either this
person or someone in their family must
have sinned or else their blindness
wouldn't have happened is this correct
in turn as I imagine Jesus turns to them
and says this person or no one in their
family has sinned but I want to take
this moment to teach you all something
regarding this I want you to watch what
unfolds with this person and myself
then we get to our first hurdle in the
text of which there are many but this is
the first then Jesus goes over to a
purse to this person spits on the ground
and rubs mud in the person's eyes and
orders this person to is not only
experiencing blindness but now has mud
in their eyes to walk over somewhere and
bathe I could just see the disciples
standing in the background with their
jaws on the ground completely
dumbfounded saying something like Jesus
what are you doing you just rubbed mud
in this poor man's eyes and he's already
blind and you're asking him to walk over
there we aren't told how the person
experiencing blindness gets to the river
or how they get back or if anybody helps
them all we know is that they went
washed came back and was able to see
upon the person's return is when the
drama unfolds further and we see John's
masterful storytelling come to the
forefront from here on out in the
passage for the most part the rest of it
follows a three-part cycle the first
step of the cycle is questioning sadly
some of the people surrounding this
person called their neighbors cannot
recognize this person without their
ailment despite this person's repetitive
it's me it's me I promise it's me all
the people knew this person for was
their blindness the neighbors
quote-unquote pushed this person's
repetitive pleading of identity aside
and gave this person their first
interrogation and it was not a very
joyous
occasion either it's not like a miracle
just happened right in front of them in
true interrogative fashion the crowd
says how did this happen to you the only
thing missing with this question is a
Law & Order theme song and a light
shining directly in this person's eyes
the person has no option but to answer
and they relatively quickly do which
leads to the second part of the cycle
the second part of the cycle is the
person who was blind designates a
relationship to Jesus in their answer
you can almost hear the panic in their
voice the person says the person who
healed me they called Jesus the person
who is literally just healed by Jesus
will not claim a direct relationship
with Jesus the person has to use an
outside resource they to give an
identity to Jesus it's almost as if they
were to say it was just some guy I don't
know him they said his name was Jesus
and this brings us quickly to the third
part of the cycle where the person
issues a faith statement the part of the
crowd that's questioning him sharply
says where did he go and he responds I
don't know this means that he doesn't
even want to claim enough of a
relationship to Jesus to even know in
which direction he was headed now I'm
going to pause the story and I have to
admit something here if it were me in
that context and they asked me in that
tone where did he go I would have had to
have said I don't know I didn't see
where he went y'all the ones with the
perfect vision I just got mine back
this crowd doesn't believe this person
so they take him to the Pharisees for
more questions this cycle of
interrogation designation and a faith
statement continues to happen to this
person who experienced blindness two
more times however in the second and
third cycle of questions something
remarkable happens and the designation
and the faith statement sections of the
cycle the person who experienced
blindness is taken to the Pharisees for
round two of this intellectual boxing
match except during the time of
interrogation the language used by the
Pharisees is much more derogatory in
nature the Pharisees asked the
Elementary and aunt and entry questions
asking this person to explain how they
received their site so once again the
person explains themselves by saying
Jesus stuck mud in my I told me to walk
in wash in the river and now I see but
instead of getting pressed for more
information about this healing the
Pharisees bypassed the miracle
completely and use this person as a way
to accuse Jesus of sinning because Jesus
did not honor the Sabbath however the
person who is no longer blind chant
changes his relationship with Jesus in
light of hearing this accusation he
elevates his relationship with Jesus by
declaring Jesus a prophet the Pharisees
still caught on their first judgment of
Jesus send for a grown persons parents
how low of a blow can you get the
was their attempt to embarrass and in
quell the person's claim of Jesus's
Parenthood and as any parent of a grown
person would do they look at the
Pharisees after being summoned and roll
their eyes and say ask him yourself we
ain't speaking form their grown so in
frustration and in a last-ditch effort
they summoned the person who was blind
for one last effort to find the truth of
what happened even though it is right in
front of them the Pharisees start
picking on the person who was blind
cornering the cornering this person like
a wolf about to attack gnashing their
teeth and snarling the exact same
questions that everyone has been asking
and they themselves have asked before
the Pharisees label this person his
disciple an attempt to insult and hurt
the person however instead of being hurt
by this comment the cornered person who
was blind takes on this label and
defends his new faith in Jesus so well
that they have no other choice but to
throw him out now we come to the story
where the literary artist of John breaks
the cycle of triplets for one more
dialogue that solidifies Jesus's
character in true Johanna in fashion
Jesus finds the person and asked them
about their faith just like everyone has
been doing all day and just like
everyone before him but in a much more
endearing and nicer tone the person who
is blind replies with an earnest plea
that is not to be misunderstood as
missive or irritative this person has
just endured a full day of questioning
and they just finally want to know who
this person is that I am have faith in
he says please just tell me you can hear
the anguish in his plea Jesus honors
this request and announces himself as
the Son of Man we are hearing this story
in the context of lint and i believe it
is all the more powerful with this
context in mind lint is a time that we
hear over and over again the
introspection of recognizing how our
faith is shaken at our mortality and
brokenness but when i read this story
with this in mind the story blossoms and
transforms into a very powerful message
to us I see a story of a person who was
on the margins of society because of an
illness who was even more isolated
stigmatized and interrogated when a
miracle happened to them I see a person
whose faith was struggling even after a
miracle happened to them directly I see
a person I see this person being placed
at the center of a story during each
faith statement from the person who
experienced blindness we see the faith
of the person grow and transform in the
midst of a chaotic environment it starts
with sheer doubt and expands to a
full-blown confession of faith and a
worship
as Raymond Brown says on one hand this
is a story of a person who sat in
darkness all of their life that was
brought to the light not only physically
but spiritually on the other hand it is
also a tale of those who thought they
saw and therefore knew were blinding
themselves to the light this story is
framed with a person who was born blind
receiving their site and the story ends
with those who have sight who are not
able to see if you ask me the Pharisees
aren't able to see at all even though we
lie in Waiting unsure of ourselves
sitting in darkness sitting in our own
chaotic environment of interrogation of
doubt of fear this story calls us to
remember that we can be used to tip the
scales of society our faith is muddy our
faith is not easy but we are called by
Jesus just like the person who
experienced blindness to bear witness to
a faith that is dynamic and to a faith
that is inwardly and outwardly
transformational we are called to
witness to the darkness of life with a
new faith with a new hope and with the
love of God on our hearts and that is
exactly what lint is all about friends
let us designate our relationship with
Jesus let us designate our relationship
with God let us be transformed with the
hopes of making
difference around us and let it be so oh
our second reading this morning comes
from the book of Matthew chapter 5
verses 38 to 48 listen now for the word
of the Lord
you have heard it said an eye for an eye
and a tooth for a tooth but I say to you
do not resist an evil doer but if anyone
strikes you on the right cheek turn to
them the other and if anyone wants to
sue you and take your coat give them
your cloak as well and if anyone forces
you to go one mile go with them a second
one give to everyone who begs from you
and do not refuse anyone who wants to
borrow from you you have heard it was
said you shall love your neighbor and
hate your enemy but I say to you love
your enemies and pray for those who
persecute you so that you may be the
children of your father in heaven for he
makes his Sun Rise on the evil and on
the good and sends rain on the righteous
and on the unrighteous for if you love
those who love you what reward do you
have do not even the tax collectors do
the same if you greet only your brothers
and sisters what more are you doing than
other people do not even the Gentiles do
the same be perfect therefore as your
heavenly Father is perfect the word of
God for the people of God
let us bow our heads for prayer God may
you shower rich blessing over the
reading of your word and over this word
that is about to be preached God remove
the haze of this world from our minds
and null VAR eyes that we may see your
will to be done among us this day in
jesus name amen I want to start this
morning with a story when Derek asked me
to preach today I was I was nervous but
I was also excited and I said yes of
course I'll breach no problem I got you
and he smiled and nodded and said great
good luck and I said what what do you
mean good luck and then I came home that
day and looked up the lectionary
passages for today and I said no wonder
he said good luck and no wonder he wants
me to preach today because I have to
preach on a portion of the sermon from
the mount and a text from Leviticus oh
lord help I have no doubts that Derek
would have done well in preaching these
passages but I have to admit that I was
nervous and preparing this message and
this service and if you have doubts just
ask anyone who has any encounter with me
for the past two weeks but underneath
the passage of Matthew's turned the
other cheek that we all started nodding
when we started to hear and the heavy
message of be perfect therefore as your
Lord is perfect and underneath all the
do nots that Althea read for us this
morning of the laviticus passage I hear
a challenge for us that I believe is
desperately needed in our world today it
seems everywhere that I turn
I see division people dividing and
segregating themselves based on race
ethnicity gender social location or
political party you name it somebody
will divide it it seems that no matter
what we do there is some person group or
institution telling you that you are
wrong you are wrong for being who you
are it seems that no matter what you say
whether that would be on facebook
twitter or instagram or in a bulletin or
in a pamphlet that we distribute there
is always someone saying you're wrong
here's why you're wrong and i hope you
do not do this again or you and i will
not be friends it seems the word not
used in this way has become popular in
our culture today and this is part of
the reason why i wrestled with the angel
that is this leviticus text this week in
our reading of Leviticus we come to a
list of do nots I count 16 knots in 9
verses sadly I was reminded by one of my
thesis advisors that clergy slap a sigh
of discontentment to the first five
books of the Bible because we feel as
though that we are being told along with
everything else in the world that we
cannot do something this is why and I'll
admit to it as well we have a tendency
to skip over books of the Bible like
Deuteronomy numbers and Leviticus we are
so tired of being told not to do
something we are so focused on the
frustration and anger of being told that
we cannot do something or better yet
that we should not do something that we
often forget of what we can
do or better yet of what we should do
the author of this passage in Leviticus
wanted to remind us of this but he did
it very subtly by writing three main
exemptions in this passage this is why I
wanted to read it this morning and not
run away from it in regards to stripping
one's vineyard of verse 10 you shall
leave them for the poor an alien it
regards to exploiting the helpless you
shall fear the Lord and lastly what I
believe to be the core of this message
you shall love your neighbor as yourself
it is this last can and should that
Jesus picks up as the message of this
part of the Sermon on the Mount I'm all
mixed up here as we reach this point of
the sermon of the mount in the book of
Matthew we need to take a step back we
need to look in the background of what's
happening in this text we have to look
at the social climate that's happening
Jesus his disciples and all the people
of Israel find themselves under the
control of the Roman Empire it was in
everything that they did he was on the
forefront of their minds all of the time
as Warren Carter said in his book
persecutions and violence whether
through words her acts of per weight of
persuasive coercion were par for the
course of everyday living they lived in
a world where families scraped by but
they still had to pay taxes to the Roman
Empire and more often than
not these taxes could and often did lead
to bankruptcy and people wandering the
streets begging for food begging for
money begging a first shelter they lived
in a world where Roman forces could come
by and knock at their door at any moment
and seize one's house food clothing and
even take family and family members for
the service of the Roman Empire they
lived in a world of segregation
delineation and individualism based on
race ethnicity gender social location
just like we are and you want to know
who's at the bottom of this hierarchy
Jesus and His disciples Jesus and His
disciples were at the bottom this is why
all the incidences that Jesus used as
teaching moments in the sermon of the
mount reflect the experience of the
little people who were beaten in debt
and suffering from foreign occupation
remarkably though even at the bottom of
this segregated and divided society
Jesus has the gall to take the command
of Leviticus 19 18 and take it one step
further Jesus says that we must not only
live love our neighbor but we are called
to love someone who hurts us let me
repeat that in case you missed it we are
to love not only someone who loves us
but someone who does evil to us
Jesus is taking the perceived operating
notions of the world based on inward
emotions and thoughts based on
individualism and the need for
retaliation and subverting them in their
entirety in our society today just as it
was in Jesus's day we think it only
makes sense to fight back when somebody
hurts me it only makes sense to hate
someone who hates me it only makes sense
to alienate somebody who is different
than I am it only makes sense to fear
someone who scares me we are operating
out of what the structures of the world
tell us is the appropriate response to
actions Jesus is asking his disciples as
I believe he's asking us to do today to
be radical in the true sense of the word
Jesus bases his command to love not on a
humanitarian ideal or a doctrine of
Human Rights or a strategy to win the
enemy over but Jesus bases it on the
nature of God that is outside the realm
of human partisanship and partiality
Jesus bases this challenge out of the
realm of possibility of human social
constructions as one of my favorite
authors says the love of neighbor is not
to be understood in the narrow sense as
merely limited to interpersonal
relationships it also involves a protest
against the force that rules the world
and breaking through the machinery of
the behavior that is determined by it
Jesus is asking us to love all people no
matter what their background just as God
loves all whom God created
Jesus is asking us to mirror the nature
of God now being a good Methodist I
highlighted this next verse in Matthew
48 be perfect therefore as your heavenly
Father is perfect what some of y'all are
thinking just like I am perfect huh
that's funny perfect Jesus wants me to
love my enemies and be perfect he's got
to be kidding me no way have you seen me
lately my life's a mess but hear me out
as I was preparing this sermon for the
past two weeks I looked up that word
perfect and you're right you're right it
does mean you know moral perfection and
moral complete moral understanding but
that's only one of 15 definitions for
the word perfect and not the correct use
of perfect in this sense that Jesus is
using the
correct definition for perfect used in
the math Ian passage means undivided
complete to be found whole undivided
obedience to God when I read this I
chuckled a little bit I chuckled so loud
in the library my next the person in
there looked at me she's like are you
all right I said all I'm just writing a
sermon choose ah I make sense but I find
it appropriate and ironic that Jesus is
using a word that means wholeness to
give oneself in its entirety a word that
means non partiality when talking about
loving an enemy which reflects God
Jesus's use of the word perfect as
contrasted by the greco-roman
understanding of perfection just as we
appropriate the word perfection today in
short the greco-roman understanding to
be perfect is when a human being is
untarnished by involvement in the
material world but let's not forget that
Jesus is in the business of subverting
the perceived operating notions of the
world he is saying that we are called
not to serve the social constructions of
the world and God God is not interested
in partiality God is not interested in
receiving only part of us God wants us
to be holy gods if we are to be holy
gods we are to subvert the divisive
reality that subjects us to fear anger
and counter that reality with the love
of God
but as I said to you before from this
very pulpit countering this structure of
hate and fear does not mean that we
obviate grief because grief is the
privilege of love if we never want to
know grief we must never know love and
be loved and as we set ourselves towards
the season of Lent Jesus
paradigmatically displayed this behavior
of impartial love for us through his own
actions in the passion narrative he
commanded his disciple who used a sword
against a Roman soldier to stop and took
it one step further and repaired the ear
that was lysed off Jesus was taken
punished by people but he did not resist
in fact he took it one step further
again and asked God to forgive those who
were crucifying him friends here this
message today be who you are be who you
are in your entirety we are called to
reflect the one that has created us the
one that forgives us when we fall short
of being that mirror but our actions
must represent our status as the sons
and daughters of God and the brothers
and sisters in Christ just as we have
shown love to each other this morning
during our moment of connection I
challenge you to take that same love
outside of these walls take that love
and subvert the structures of fear and
anger counter the structures of division
of segregation and of individualism with
the love of God
that shows no bounds or partiality be
who you are amen now as I as the
brothers and sisters
Daniel and I are we going to tag team on
this and in a very short time we're
going to try to tell you who was God but
we get a little help from a little boy
eight years old telling us about God
what do kids say about God it was
written by eight year old Danny Dutton
of cholula Vista California he did this
as a homework assignment for his third
grade class the assignment was to
explain God and I wonder if any of us
could do so well one of God's main jobs
is making people he makes them to
replace the ones that die so that there
will be enough people to take care of
the things on earth he doesn't make
grown-ups just babies I think because
they are smaller and easier to make
that's why he doesn't have to take up
his valuable time teaching them to talk
and to walk he just leaves that to the
mothers and the father's God's most
second important job is listening to
prayers an awful lot of this goes on
since some people like preachers pray
all the time and sometimes at bedtime
God doesn't have time to listen to the
radio or TV because of this God sees
everything he hears everything and he's
everywhere which keeps him pretty busy
so you shouldn't go wasting God's time
by going over your mom and dad's head
and and asking for something that they
already told you you couldn't have Jesus
is God's Son he used to do all the hard
work for God like walking on water and
performing miracles and people finally
got tired of him preaching and they
crucified him but he was good and kind
like his father and he told his father
that they didn't know what they were
doing to forgive them and God said okay
his dad God appreciated everything that
he had done in all of his hard work on
earth and he told him that he didn't
have to go out on the road anymore he
could just stay at home in heaven so he
did and now Jesus helps his dad out by
listening to prayers and seeing things
which are important for God to take care
of and which ones he can take care of
himself without having to bother his dad
with it kind of like a secretary but
only more important you can pray anytime
you want and they are sure to help you
because they got it worked out somehow
you should always go to church on Sunday
because it makes God happy and if
there's anybody you want to make happy
it's God don't skip Church to do
something that you think would be more
fun like going to the beach this is
wrong are you listening mmm and besides
the Sun doesn't come out on the beach
until noon anyway go to church so let's
give Danny Dutton a big hand so what
does the scripture say about who God is
Genesis 1 vs. 1 25 in the beginning God
created the heavens and the earth now
the earth was formless and empty and the
darkness was over the surface of the
deep and the Spirit of God was hovering
over the waters and God said let there
be light and there was light God saw the
light was good and he separated the
light from the darkness and he called
the light day and called the darkness
night and there was evening and there
was morning the first day who was God
John 11 through five in the beginning
the Word of God and the Word was with
God and the Word was God he was with God
in the beginning through him all things
were made without him nothing was made
that had been made in him was life and
the life was the light of all mankind
the light shines in the darkness and the
darkness has not overcome it who is God
you say yes Psalm 130 five versus five
to six I know the Lord is great and our
Lord is greater than all the other gods
the Lord does whatever pleases him in
the heavens and on the earth and in the
Seas and all of their depths who was God
Psalm 90 verse 2 says before the
mountains were born or brought forth on
the whole world from everlasting to
everlasting you are God who is God you
say ask James chapter 1 verse 17 every
good and perfect gift is from above
coming down from the father of the
heavenly lights who does not change like
the shifting shadows who was God Hebrews
4 verse 13 says nothing in all of
creation is hidden from God's sight
everything is uncovered and laid bare
before the eyes of him who we must give
an account who is God who was God let's
ask Paul Ephesians 3 verses 22 21 now to
him who is able to do immeasurably more
than all we ask or imagine according to
his power that is in work within us to
him be the glory in the church and in
Jesus Christ throughout all the
generations forever and ever amen who
was God the psalmist says in 1 30 9
verses 12 where can I go from your
spirit where can I flee from your
presence if I go up into the heavens you
were there and if I make my bed and the
depths
you were there if I ride on the wings of
the dawn if I subtle on the far side of
the sea even there your hand will guide
me your right hand will hold me fast as
I say surely the darkness will hide me
the light becomes night around me even
the darkness will not be docked to you
the night will shine like the day for
darkness is as light okay okay Derek who
is God who was God according to the
psalmist let's look at Psalm 103 vs 8 to
14 shall we shall we the lord is
compassionate and gracious slow to anger
abounding in love he will not always
accuse nor will he harbours his anger
forever he does not treat us as our sins
deserve or repay us according to our
iniquities for as high as the heavens
are above the earth so great is his love
for those who fear Him as far as the
East is from West so far he has removed
our transgressions from us as a father
has compassion on his children so does
the Lord have compassion on those who
fear him for he knows how we are formed
he remembers that we are dust who was
god psalm 11 7 says it this way for the
Lord is righteous he loves justice the
upright will see his face who was God
Elohim master teacher cornerstone Savior
Adonai the great I am the comforter
Messiah Lamb of God Abba Father light of
the world wonderful counselor hope of
the world The True Vine the Most High
God emmanuelle the way the truth the
life creator sustainer
amen amen
lord I pray that you would hide these
preachers behind the cross that your
people might see you and not us that
they might hear you and not us father
let the words in our mouths the
meditations of our hearts be acceptable
in thy sight O Lord our strength and our
Redeemer force in Christ's name we pray
amen won a challenge you're thinking
this morning with the thought the
purpose of the church what would you say
is the purpose of the church if I asked
anybody I'll ask over here the purpose
of the church to build our faith
fellowship anybody the purpose segun to
worship God to make disciples to serve
others anybody else to spread the gospel
of Jesus Christ to sing his praises in
the back on this side any hear from
anybody back there and over this way
anybody missions amen what Daniel and I
going to do today is we're going to tag
team and what we hope to do is to sort
of tease your mind with thoughts about
what the church really is in his book
the family of God Bastille Barret Baxter
says the following there there are some
who think the church is an organization
like most other organizations yes it
could be considered an organization but
not primarily an organization he says
rather it's a new way of life those who
have this view of it being a part of the
church is like being a member of a large
or luncheon or some kind of political
party or club
or business are seriously mistaken such
people feel that they should give the
church the same kind of support and
loyalty to which they give these other
organizations it becomes the church as
my church my club or my lodge or my
party or my team but Baxter says our
loyalty should be to God the church is
more like a vibrant living organism than
it is like a cold structure we shouldn't
make this mistake that the church is
here to entertain us but the church is
our opportunity as we've heard to
worship God so what would you say the
purpose of the churches then I think we
have a common misconception that the
church is a building and that is there's
nothing wrong with that a church is
rafters the church is a light a churches
fit is the pews the church is the carpet
but I got to thinking about it and I
believe that the church is the spiritual
bond that the people share with each
other that can be taken outside of these
walls I was thinking about a visit that
I had how many of you know who TL and
Myrtle Jenkins I went to visit them this
week and it was an incredible visit but
Myrtle said something to me that is
worth sharing let me just say for some
of you who may not know them they've
been married for 73 years let's give
them a big hand
they've been in this church for about
seventy six years and she said you know
I love my home she says i've always
loved my home but when i had to make the
decision to come into this assisted
living facility i had to make the
adjustment she says but one thing that i
miss is a miss my church there's no
substitute for my church i miss much
there's now was Myrtle talking about the
church the building or was she talking
about the church the people and I was
entertaining that thought when Derek
came to me with it I got to thinking of
a book that I had finished in my spare
time because you know I have so much
spare time how many of you have heard of
the purpose driven life by rick warren i
think it's a great look I really do and
I think they're in that book there are
five key concepts that are very
important to coming up for the purpose
of the church but we have to remember
that this method of The Purpose Driven
church is an overarching method for
Christian ministry not a program or
anything like that and such its
implementation continues to transform
churches across the nation of all
different denominations and the five
concepts that he comes up with a worship
love the Lord God with all your heart
soul mind strength ministry to love your
neighbor as yourself evangelism go
therefore and make disciples of all
nations fellowship and baptize them in
the name of the Father Son and Holy
Spirit and discipleship in teaching them
all that I command to you and each one
of these ideas is centered around the
closing chapters of Matthew Matthew 22
37 to 40 and the Great Commission of
Matthew 28 18 to 20 but according to
Rick Warren the foundation of a healthy
Church is to by clarifying the mine
everyone in the church of exactly why
the church exists and what is it
supposed to do there's incredible power
I believe in having a purpose that
everyone can get behind can grab with
their mind and have a clean have it
clearly defined and I think Rick Warren
does a great job of latching on to these
closing chapters in Matthew to
communicate the purpose the organization
and how to apply them but having
presented this theological and
theoretical perspective Warren then
explains the process of the age-old
question of how do we do this but by
walking through the walking the reader
through each and every one of these
steps to in order to attract those
outside of these walls but I got me
thinking even more and everybody here's
going to laugh at me when I say this
because you all know me well enough by
now I got to thinking well what is
purpose a purpose is a reason for being
a reason to exist everything God does
has a purpose everything God has made
has a reason for existing there are
specific purposes Jesus intended for his
church to accomplish and knowing these
purposes is important for every believer
the law of purposes states that unless
you know the purpose of a thing you will
be more than likely to either neglect
abuse or misuse that thing the reason
some Christians neglect the local church
is because they really don't understand
this purpose of the church and Derek
this is what is so tragic to me yeah
Tony Campolo he said it's like we're
leaving our young people to chance that
were not sharing the Word of God with
them and what
happens when we don't share the Word of
God with our young people is that the
world begins to teach them what success
really is he says but what we need to do
is share Romans 12 verse 1 through 2 I
beseech you therefore brethren by the
mercies of God that you present your
bodies as a living sacrifice holy and
acceptable unto God which is your
reasonable service listen to this do not
be conformed to this world I'm going to
say it again do not be conformed to this
world but be transformed by the renewing
of your mind you see when we read the
Word of God when we study the Word of
God then we might even hold on to what
God values and then I read the end of
Tony Campolo statement this way through
the ages God has used the church to keep
alive and pass down the story of what
Christ has done for us and it is the
church's witness that has kept the world
aware that Christ is alive today
offering help and strength to those
outside of these walls and those who
trust in him the story of Christ would
have been lost during the dark ages if
it not have been preserved by the
monasteries copying laborious ly the
manuscripts of the Gospels illuminating
them with art while invasion and plague
plague plague plague the West learn
civilization church councils have
protected Christianity from heresies by
examining new theologies and today it is
this 2000 year tradition that our
modern-day interpretation of Scripture
have are tested in short toussaint to
summarize it is the church that is
preserved the gospel and delivered it
into our hands this very day and it begs
the question again what is the purpose
of the church I was looking at Acts
chapter 2
42 and it says this that day about 3000
took him at his word and they were
baptized and were signed up they
committed themselves to the teaching of
the Apostles their life together the
common meal and prayer so according to
this verse the purposes of the church
should be to teach the doctrine provide
a place for fellowship and observe the
Lord's Supper and prayer what is the
purpose of the church and that got me
thinking even further let's go to
Ephesians chapter 4 verse 14 then we
will no longer be infants tossed back
and forth by the waves and blown here
and there by every wind of teaching and
by the cunning and craftiness of the
people in their deceitful scheming the
church is there the purpose of the
church is to teach biblical doctrine so
that we can be grounded and secure in
our faith the church is to be a place of
fellowship where Christians can be
devoted to one another and honor one
another and similarly let's go back to
Romans 12 that was read to you this
morning love from the center of who you
are run for dear life from evil hold on
to dear life to good be good friends
with each other who loved deeply and
practice playing second fiddle what is
the purpose of the church Derek Matthew
28 verses 18 through 20 says it this way
Jesus undeterred went right ahead and
gave the charge God authorized and
commanded me to Commission you go out
and train everyone you meet far and near
in the way of life marking them by their
baptism and the threefold name Father
Son and Holy Spirit then instruct them
in the practical ways of life
so we have the Great Commission go out
and make disciples of Jesus Christ I
heard somebody say that over here so
that is one of the purposes what is the
purpose of the church and that got me
thinking even further you know I'd never
stop thinking some of the final purposes
of the church are given in the book of
James chapter 1 verse 27 religion that
God our Father accepts as pure and
faultless pneus is this to look after
orphans and widows in their distress and
to keep oneself from being polluted in
the world the church is about the
business of ministering to those who are
in need this includes not only sharing
the gospel but also providing them with
physical needs food shelter clothing as
necessary and appropriate the church is
also there to equip believers in Christ
the tools they need to overcome sin and
remain free from the pollution of the
world and this is done so by biblical
teaching in christian fellowship with
one another so i will ask you again
Derek what is the purpose of the church
I was looking at first Corinthians
chapter 12 verses 12 through 27 but
here's what it says Paul gives this
wonderful illustration that we are God's
hands that we are God's mouth that we
are God's feet to take the gospel into
the world that we ought to be
christ-like in Christ's following what
is the purpose of the church lastly I
was at the grocery store the other day
and yes I do cook surprisingly and I
didn't burn anything down and I came
across a magazine you know those
magazines that you see when you're
checking out and it's called charisma
magazine and it gave top 10 reasons of
why you should go to church and here is
some of them if you follow Christ you
are part of the body of Christ and body
parts by their very nature are connected
you are the church to God wants to show
others who he is through you when you
get involved in the church you show who
God is you are the church you have been
given a spiritual gift that is to be
used to build up the body of Christ your
gift is something other believers
desperately need you are the church you
need to eat the Word of God drink the
Word of God learn the word of God so
that we can share it with others you are
the church you need to share with others
which meet the means you have and be in
the presence of others your brothers and
sisters for they are going to want to
share their needs and halves with you
you are the church you need
encouragement and so does other people
they need encouragement you are the
church you need to laugh and you need to
cry with other believers through all the
ups and downs in life and this can only
happen if you are with each other
together you are the body of Christ
somehow we're blessed by the Fellowship
of others we're encouraged by the
Fellowship of others you are the church
if God is your father that means that
makes the church a family affair and a
family gathering you are the church you
are the church everyone here is the
church when we gather with other
believers and love them God on all of
this may complete and you you need the
church and the church needs you you are
the church would you take the hands of
the person next to you
let's bow our heads dear holy and
ageless God today we gather in your
presence to celebrate the ones who came
before us the forebears that walk these
halls and Isles even though they are
walking with you we feel their presence
this moment the saints of this world as
you created them you placed on our
journey of life and a faith to help us
see your way path and truth today is
about remembering their lessons of love
of laughter and of faith and in this
time of unrest in multiple spheres of
our lives these memories and lessons
guide our feet as we walk through the
darkness as we walk down the gravel road
as we walk down the path that is before
us let us be together in this moment as
we hold hands with each other help us to
encourage each other help us to remind
each other that we are the body of
Christ that we are all God's children
that we are all one family now with a
company of all those presents holding
our hands and with all the saints that
hold our hearts in every moment let us
join together and with them as we pray
the prayer of comfort and discipleship
the Lord's Prayer our Father who art in
heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom
come Thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven give us this day our daily
bread and forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil for thine is the
kingdom the power
you
chapter 24 verses 13 to 35 listen now
for the word of the Lord now on that
same day two of them were going to a
village called Emmaus about seven miles
from Jerusalem and talking with each
other about all these things that had
happened while they were talking and
discussing Jesus himself came near and
went with them but their eyes were kept
from recognizing him and jesus said to
them what are you discussing with each
other while you walk along they stood
still looking sad one of them whose name
was Clovis answered him are you the only
stranger in Jerusalem who does not know
the things that have taken place these
three days Jesus asked them what things
they replied the things about Jesus of
Nazareth who was prophet mighty in deed
and word before God and all people and
how our chief priests and leaders handed
him over to be condemned to death and to
crucify him but we had hoped that Jesus
was one of the one to redeem Israel yes
and besides all of this it is now the
third day since these things took place
moreover some women of our group
assigned his body there they came back
and told us that they had indeed seen a
vision of angels who said that Jesus was
alive some of those who were with us
went to the tomb and found it just as
the women had said but they did not see
Jesus
then jesus said to them oh how foolish
you are how slow of heart to believe all
the prophets have declared was it not
necessary that the Messiah should suffer
these things and then enter into glory
then beginning with Moses and all the
prophets he interpreted to them the
things about himself in all the
scriptures as they came near to the
village to which they were going Jesus
walked ahead as if he was going on but
the two urged him strongly saying stay
with us because it is almost evening in
the day is now nearly over so Jesus went
in and stayed with them when he was at
the table with them Jesus took the bread
blessed it and broke it and gave it to
them then their eyes were opened and
they recognized him and he vanished from
their sight they said to each other
we're not our hearts burning within us
while we were talking to him on the road
while he was opening the scriptures to
us that same hour they got up and
returned to Jerusalem and they found the
eleven and their companions gathered
together they were saying the Lord has
risen indeed
and he has appeared to Simon than they
had told what had happened on the road
and how he had been made known to them
in the breaking of the bread the Word of
God for the people of God
let us bow our heads for prayer dear
Lord we pray that you be with us today
as we receive your word through the
message and through the songs and may we
feel your presence with us this morning
as we share your meal
of Holy Communion Lord I want to lift up
Providence United Methodist Church as a
place of transformation you planted me
here knowing that this place could be
the soil the sunlight and the water that
I would need to grow in order to serve
you lord I pray that you continue to use
this church as the soil the sunlight and
the water that any ministry that springs
forth from it may bless the world just
as it has blessed me in Jesus name Amen
well today's the day today's that day
that was always on the horizon but was
always right next to me this sermon was
and is going to be tough for me to give
this morning because this is the last
time I will be preaching here as your
young adult minister and as your
seminary intern I was racking my brain
all week trying to figure out what to
tell you that I haven't already told you
I was racking my brain even more as to
what to tell you that you haven't
already heard regarding this famous
passage this passage is so famous in the
United Methodist Church it's so famous
that the United Methodist Church has
several programs dedicated and named
after to it named after it and in my
research on this scripture more often
than not the United
that is church uses this scripture to
describe aspects of how we celebrate the
communion table together well depending
on how you interpret it I have some good
news and bad news for you if that's what
you want to hear this morning the bad
news is is that we aren't going to talk
about any of that the good news is we
aren't going to talk about any of that
instead I want to be selfish and I want
I want to speak about a topic that has
been on my mind since I started
reflecting on my time here at Providence
this story centers on one major image
that describes the Christian faith
perfectly this image is the image of the
road now I want you all to hold on real
quick I'm going to say something that's
going to blow you all's mind you ready
you ready roads look different depending
on where they are
right right amen yeah it's great isn't
it roads look different depending on
where they are how they're maintained
and what context they're in sometimes
they are twisting and turning and rocky
just like this one sometimes they are
smooth predictable and straight these
kind of roads are the ones we end up
knowing inside and out because we can
see where we're going we can see further
on from where we are sometimes I like to
think though roads are combination of
both of these this road is one of my
favorite roads of all time this is a
road that is on my family farm that I
grew up on it traces the boundary line
of our property and it takes about five
hours to walk around from beginning to
end I know this road in and out like the
back of my hand I walked this road with
my uncle as we scoured the boundary line
placing pink ribbons on branches I
walked this road with my brother and his
30 pound puggle and I walked down this
road with my mother because she likes
being outside during the summer this
road dips into creeks and comes up
enormous hills but it also has straight
shots in it just like this one where you
can see for about three acres this image
of the road came into my mind when I
heard this passage title this morning
the road to emmaus and the nature of
this path and of this road stuck out to
me because the nature of the of a road
in general is to take us from point A to
point B however fast or in my case
however slow the nature of the road is
to convey movement the passage this
morning reflects this movement in the
Gospel of Luke the road to Emmaus takes
place right after the events of the
crucifixion and immediately right after
the resurrection this passage comes on
the heels of the disciples disbelief and
the message of the resurrection conveyed
by Mary Mary Magdalene and James but it
also comes a couple verses right after
Peter who pulled what I call a forrest
gump but took off running to the tomb to
see if Jesus was still there see and the
author of this story and Luke placed the
road to Emmaus after these events for a
specific reason as we look at the past
as it starts with a vague description of
our two main characters all it says is
now there were two of them and it's one
of those not very helpful descriptors
found in the Book of Luke that is so
frustrating to me because we don't know
who we're talking about are we talking
about two disciples are we talking about
two followers of Jesus are we talking
about two random people we don't know
but as we can surmise they must be
followers of Jesus of some sort because
they were talking about the events that
had just happened these two followers of
Jesus were on their way from point-a
Jerusalem to point-b Emmaus
talking about what they've seen and what
they felt and what they've heard in the
past three days and it's no secret that
they were feeling pretty sad because it
says and they were sad but there's also
another clue in this passage right at
the beginning it says they were talking
to each other and in the English sounds
pretty normal for us almost like I was
saying hey Derek how are you were you
but actually in the Greek it takes on
another subtle nuance that we miss it
kind of this word to talk actually takes
on a meaning of they were comforting
each other see they weren't just talking
they were helping each other process
they were being there for each other
they were holding each other in the
midst of this earth-shaking event that
they had to process and then another
character emerges on the scene incognito
Jesus appears and asked them why they
were comforting each other what's wrong
what happened knowing full well that
they were comforting each other about
his story so colobus gives a very
pedagogical account of the entire
passion narrative and a rather defeated
tone and this defeated tone resembles
presenting all the mistakes you made in
a final paper when someone asks you how
you did on it not that I would know what
that means but the most interesting part
of the scripture happens during that
Reda feeted recounting of the events
that transpired for Clovis and his
recounting he actually talks about the
glimmer of hope in it
in verses 23 and 24 he says they were at
the tomb early this morning and when
they did not find his body there they
came back and told us that they indeed
have seen a vision of angels who said
Jesus was alive they go on to say that
some of those who were with us went to
the tomb and found it just as the women
had said but they did not see Jesus at
this very moment I can imagine incognito
Jesus being swollen with pride thinking
to himself yay they finally got it
congratulations
they finally understand what I've been
trying to tell them but the lack of joy
on Clovis's and the other person's face
was like a needle to Jesus's balloon of
pride their faces show Jesus that they
were caught up in the chaos of
misunderstanding of despair and of
isolation they were caught up in the
sadness that Jesus was not physically
there with them for them Jesus died
Jesus left Jesus was not there with them
deflated at this incognito Jesus in
probably one of the most non pastoral
responses known to humankind says
something that confuses me and just
about every reading of this passage that
I could find Jesus responds with a hint
of disappointing anger at what Clovis
has genuinely said regarding the events
that have happened but don't get me
wrong Jesus is not angry or upset at the
disciples for them not believing the
correct doctrine for getting the story
wrong or for even labeling him the wrong
way as they've done in the past
Jesus is upset that he has to remind
Clovis and the other disciple that the
defeat of doubt and the isolation of
death is only half the story
so Jesus takes time with them and
continues to walk and talk with them as
they move down the road to Emmaus we
don't know what was said during this
long conversation along the way but it
must have been a good one because
colobus and the friend invite Jesus to a
meal and to stay the night this is the
climax of the scripture for me today the
climax of the story
all starts with a gesture of kindness it
was a Jewish custom of the time and I
like to thank one of Christianity as
well especially in the south after
spending a good amount of time with
somebody if it happened to be after dark
at the after your meeting at the
conclusion of it he invites someone to
stay and you invite someone to share
time with you you would share food with
them my grandma which would share her
little biscuits with us and we were
there for another two hours
but our car friends invite Jesus to stay
with them and because Jesus was the
guest he took the head of the table the
guests seat and this is where the story
is so beautiful symbolically we
encounter the reenactment of the Last
Supper that occurred three days prior we
have the same formulaic expression even
in the Greek he took the bread blessed
it and broke it and gave it to them and
almost makes you want to say and
continue on with the liturgy but then
like a whirlwind
boom their eyes were open and Jesus
became the Jesus they knew incognito
Jesus was gone they recognized him but
just as soon as they reached out to hold
him Jesus vanished Jesus was gone again
Jesus left but what did they do
were they wrestling with doubt and fear
probably but they took off that very
same hour that's Luke's term for saying
immediately they ran back to their point
a back to where they came from back to
Jerusalem to talk to the disciples about
what they have seen and they confirmed
and said exactly the message that they
were proclaiming but they did not
believe and it all happened because of
an act of kindness it all happened over
a meal this sacred meal that that they
had and the experience of the divine
that caused the resurrection to believe
to be believed
all started with meeting somebody on the
road and to me this is what I believe we
need to hear today the narrative that
has been and probably will continue to
plague our country and the United
Methodist Church is a narrative of
misunderstanding of despair and
isolation the same narrative of the
story all too often we hear narratives
that say Christians can't stand together
the church does not do any good except
cause violence and the church is dying
each one of these broad painting strokes
blemishes a portrait of centuries of
helping the disenfranchised than the
devalue supporting each other during
natural disasters and holding each
other's heart in the moments of pain and
loss I am thankful for my experience
here at Providence because you all have
given me and have proven to me that
these narratives are not the entire
story
this place has proven to me that faith
is not coerced or born from rebellion
against overwhelming narratives and
revelations just like the text this
morning faith comes through recounting
and sharing our personal stories of
faith with each other and experiencing
divine grace found at the table with our
brothers and sisters in Christ the
emotion I feel this morning is the same
emotion that is found in the passage the
passage creates tension through its use
of movement the disciples want to stay
in the moment they don't want to go
anywhere they don't want to leave they
don't want Jesus to go they want to stay
in what has been
profound experience for them this is
demonstrated by inviting Jesus to the
meal but just like Jesus the story has
to move and progress one of my favorite
theologians Francois above all said it
better than I can
he said walking on the road is a model
of human life and of the Christian life
of faith it must come to an end even if
only provisionally just as the passage
showed us this morning the sacred meal
and experience of the divine that I've
had with you all these past two years
all started when you met me on the road
and when you decided to walk with me
on the road and even though I will start
my own journey down a different road
that God has placed me on I will never
forget this place or any of you or the
journey that we have walked together I
consider each and every one of you a
part of my Christian family I consider
you all my brothers and sisters in
Christ and I look forward to meeting you
all later on down the road
amen
